Title: Update on the Councils Action Plan response to the External Auditor Recommendations under paragraph.pdf

URL Source: https://moderngov.lambeth.gov.uk/documents/s173338/Councils%20Response%20to%20Statutory%20Recommendations.pdf

Published Time: Tue, 17 Mar 2026 08:49:43 GMT

Number of Pages: 7

Markdown Content:
CORPORATE COMMITTEE 29 JANUARY 20 26

Report title : Update on the Council’s Action Plan response to the External Auditor 

Recommendations under paragraph 2 of Schedule 7 of the Local Audit and Accountability Act 

2014 

Wards: All 

Portfolio: Leader of the Council : Councillor Claire Holland 

Report Authorised by: Zena Cooke : Corporate Director of Resources 

Contact for enquiries: Zena Cooke, Corporate Director of Resources ,

zcooke@lambeth.gov.uk , 0207 926 6943 

REPORT SUMMARY 

The purpose of this report is to present the regular u pdate to the Council’s Action Plan in 

response to the Section 24 Recommendations received from the Council’s External Auditors, 

Forvis Mazars, with progress updates on the detailed actions arising from the Action Plan. Full 

Council delegated authority to C orporate Committee to oversee progress and delivery of the 

Action Plan. The updated Action Plan is attached in Appendix A. 

FINANCE SUMMARY 

The Section 24 Recommendations received from the Council’s external auditors, Forvis Mazars, 

relate to the Council’ s financial position and cover the financial year 2024 -25, the budget for 

2025 -26, the Medium -Term Financial Strategy (MTFS) period, the Council’s reserves position 

and the Council’s progress on the financial considerations of the decision to bring Homes f or 

Lambeth in house. 

As reported at the last Corporate Committee, some of these actions were already being taken, 

with further actions both implemented and planned to address the financial challenge the 

council is facing and as part of enhancing the exis ting budget planning, monitoring, and 

reporting arrangements. The detailed existing and additional actions that form part of the 

Council’s response, are set out in Appendix A. There are a number of actions that are linked to 

the Q3 Financial Performance Re port and 2026 -27 budget and MTFS report that will be 

reported in the next progress update report to the March Corporate Committee. 

RECOMMENDATIONS 

1. To consider and review the progress set out in the Action Plan (Appendix A) and agree to 

close action s where indicated. 1. CONTEXT  

> 1.1

As well as giving an opinion on the financial statements and assessing the arrangements 

for securing economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the Council's use of resources, the 

external auditors have additional powers and duties under the Local Audit and 

Accountability Act 2014. These include powers to issue a public interest report, make 

written recommendations, apply to the Court for a declaration that an item of account is 

contrary to law, and to give electors the opport unity to raise questions about the Council's 

accounts and to raise objections received in relation to the accounts. 

2. PROPOSAL AND REASONS 

2.1 The Action Plan attached a t Appendix A updates the Corporate Committee on the 

progress made in response to the externa l auditors Forvis Mazars written 

recommendations, issued under section 24 and Schedule 7 of the Local Audit and 

Accountability Act 2014 and sets out further detail on the actions being taken . This is a 

standing agenda item. 

2.2 The external auditor has acknowledged that the Council is in an extremely challenging 

financial situation and has significant demand pressures on its general fund services, in 

particular Temporary Accommodation, and further financial pressures on the Housing 

Revenue Account. 

2.3 The A ction Plan sets out the detailed actions and improvements that relate to the Council’s 

financial position and cover s the financial year 2024 -25, the budget for 2025 -26 and the 

Medium -Term Financial Strategy period, the Council’s reserves position and the C ouncil’s 

progress on the financial considerations of the decision to bring Homes for Lambeth in 

house. 

2.4 The Council continues to face unprecedented pressure on its finances as a result of the 

real terms cuts in government funding since 2010. In that time, t he Council’s funding has 

fallen by more than 28%, while demand for our services has increased and the inflation 

rate has been at a generational high. There is now the equivalent of £116m a year less to 

spend on local services. Whilst in recent years we hav e seen increases in core spending 

power, these do not bring us back to former funding levels in real terms neither have these 

kept pace with increases in the demand for our services. In particular, as a result of the 

housing crisis, demand for temporary ac commodation has reached unprecedented levels 

across London and taken up greater amounts of London boroughs’ budgets. We also 

continue to face demand pressures in the key areas of adults and children’s social care. 

The Council’s financial planning has also been frustrated by a series of one -year 

settlements in previous years and the multi -year settlement announced as part of the 

Provisional Local Government Finance Settlement is therefore welcome. 

2.5 Significant work has been undertaken, both before and since t he statutory 

recommendations were issued in February 2025, to improve the financial stability of the 

Council. However, whilst these actions have been agreed and implemented at pace, it is 

clear that they will take time to have an impact on the financial p osition of the Council. 

Work includes: 

 Plan to rebuild the reserves through the MTFS (£15m a year) 

 Early approval of savings  Addressing the issue of ensuring that the cost of debt is adequately factored into the 

budget for 2026/27 onwards – this was one of the main reasons the overspend last 

year increased so significantly and it has been addressed. 

 A p ause on the capital programme to reduce borrowing costs. 

 Third party external review of the MTFS to provide independent assurance and 

recommendations for further improvements. 

 External commissions on demand -led services to drive down costs. 

 A comprehensive review of all fees and charges and commercial income to build 

realistic and achievable increased income budgets 

 Implementation of a flexible use of capital receipts policy so that we can fund relevant 

revenue spend from the receipts to reduce the overspend .

 Spend controls with stricter controls planned on approval limits. 

2.6 We are also building a pipeline of the asset disposals to fund transformation w ork as part 

of the implementation of a flexible use of capital receipts policy. 

2.7 An Exceptional Financial Support ( EFS ) application has been submitted to the 

Government to assist the Council in return ing to a financially sustainable position and to 

allow sufficient time for the service redesign and transformation to take effect in reducing 

spend. We plan to fund any EFS through the disposals programme and not through 

borrowin g over the medium term. 

2.8 Furthermore, as set out in the last published Financial Pe rforma nce report (Q2) , it should 

be noted that whilst the Council is reporting a n overspend for 2025 -26, it is significantly 

lower than the year end position in 2024 -25 and the key demand -led areas are not 

increasing month on month. 

2.9 The Committee will continue to receive a regular report on progress against the detailed 

actions as the Action Plan attached at Appendix A is a standing item on the agenda. 

Actions that have been implemented and closed are summarised below and also moved to 

the end of the ta ble and greyed in Appendix A. 

2.10 Due to the timing of the Committee (January) in comparison to Cabinet ( late February) our 

opportunity to report further financial impact from continued activity is limited in this 

update . A full update on the impacts of the w ork to address the statutory recommendations 

will be reported to Committee in March 2026. 

2.11 At the last meeting the Committee agreed the closure of a number of the 

recommendations as they were assured of the actions taken to implement them. The 

appendix set s out the action plans for the remaining recommendations. The following table 

contains the actions closed by the Committee .       

> Ref: Summary of actions Reason for closure
> SR1 -01 Savings and efficiencies in 2024 -25 to
> be identified as part of the Council’s
> budget monitoring and reporting
> arrangements
> Savings and efficiencies were identified,
> and expenditure reductions were achieved
> across service directorates ,although these
> were offset by increases in corporate costs .
> Outcome and impact reported to Corporat e
> Committee.

Ref:  Summary of actions  Reason for closure 

SR1 - 02  To continue to operate spending 

control arrangements to minimise 

avoidable staffing and non -staffing 

expenditure during 2024 -25. 

Spend controls remain full y operational ;

they are regularly monitored and impact for 

Q1 and Q2 have be en reported to 

Corporate Committee. 

SR2 - 02  Provide monthly budget monitoring 

reports setting out the revenue and 

capital position, including income and 

debt recovery, savings and 

management actions. 

Monthly Financial Performance reports are 

presented to Directorate Management 

Teams, and these arrangements have been 

enhanced and improved to include revenue ,

capital position , income, debt recovery, 

savings and management actions. Outcome 

and impact reported to Corporate 

Committee. 

SR2 - 03  Provide compreh ensive quarterly 

finance monitoring reports to Cabinet 

and Scrutiny. 

The format and content of the quarterly 

Financial Performance reports have been 

reviewed to ensure they provide information 

clearly and transparently to ensure informed 

decision making, a re sufficiently focussed 

on the key financial information and analysis 

and set out clearly the actions taken and 

planned to improve the Council’s financial 

position. Outcomes and impact reported to 

Corporate Committee. 

SR2 - 04  Produce a monthly savings tracker to 

monitor and report on delivery 

progress and any identified risks and 

mitigations. 

A monthly savings tracker is in place, 

detailing all the agreed savings for 2025 -26. 

The savings tracker is a standing agenda 

item at the Finance and Transformati on 

Board and shared with Cabinet Members. 

The savings tracker is incorporated into the 

quarterly Financial Performance reports to 

Cabinet. Outcome and impact reported to 

Corporate Committee. 

SR2 - 05  Identify and deliver agreed 

management actions that are required 

to offset any in -year pressures. 

Actions to include: 

Early reporting of year -end forecast 

for 2025/26 (month 2 position) to 

Cabinet, including management 

actions being taken and planned to 

bring down spend. 

Regular monthly reporting to the 

Fin ance & Transformation 

Management Board which meets 

fortnightly. 

Monthly reporting to Cabinet 

Members 

All actions complete. Early reporting of year -

end forecast was presented to Cabinet in 

July 2025. As above , regular ,

comprehensive financial reporting is in 

place for the Finance & Transformation 

Management Board , Informal Cabinet and 

published publicly through formal Cabinet. 

Outcome and impact reported to Corporate 

Committee. Ref:  Summary of actions  Reason for closure 

Quarterly reporting on savings 

delivery progress to Cabinet as part of 

the Council’s Financial Performance 

Report 

SR2 - 06  Spending controls to be in place to 

limit avoidable non -essential spend. 

Spend controls remain fully operational; 

they are regularly monitored and impact for 

Q1 and Q2 have been reported to 

Corporate Committee .

SR2 - 07  Specific spending controls and 

demand management actions in place 

across Housing, Children's Services 

and Adult Social Care to reduce in -

year and future years overspends. 

Service based panels are in place across 

Housing, Adult Social Care and Children’s 

Services, to review and approve spend 

requests to meet identified need. Value for 

money considerations are required as part 

of the panels’ decision making. 

External support for Temporary 

Accommodation, as well as Adult Social 

Care and Children’s Services focussing on 

demand management and data led 

approaches for prevention and early 

intervention as part of the Council’s 

Transformation Programme has been 

secured. 

As above, regular, comprehensive financial 

reporting is in place for the Finance & 

Transformation Management Board, 

Informal Cabinet and published publicly 

through formal Cabinet which demonstrate 

impact. 

SR3 - 01  Review of General Fund reserves to 

be undertaken and recommendations 

implemented as part of the 2024 -25 

closing of accounts. 

A review of the Council’s General Fund 

reserves has been completed. The 

Medium -Term Financial Strategy reported to 

Cabinet in July included provision to 

increase General Fund Balances to 10% of 

net revenue expenditure (circa £45m) over 

a three -year perio d to restore financial 

resilience to the recommended levels. 

SR4 - 01  Cost assumptions in the current 

MTFS to be updated to confirm the 

financial implications on the budget 

and wider financial position. 

The cost assumptions in the MTFS were 

reviewed and u pdated to take account of 

cost pressures at both service and 

corporate level (e.g. debt costs) and 

planned management actions. The funding 

assumptions have been updated to reflect 

the Spending Review and Fair Funding 

Reforms. The MTFS Update report was 

pre sented to July Cabinet. 3. FINANCE 

3.1 The financial implications arising from the recommendations in this report will be taken into 

account as part of the Council’s existing budget setting, monitoring and reporting 

arrangements. 

4. LEGAL AND DEMOCRACY 

4.1 Following the delegation by Full Council to the Committee to monitor progress being made 

to implement the Council’s response to the recommendations, confirmation is given that 

the Committee still retains the Constitutional power to do so by virtue of its following Terms 

of Reference: 

4.2 To consider and subsequently approve the Council's Statement of Accounts and to 

consider any reports produced by the Corporate Director of Finance in accordance with 

the duty to make arrangements for the proper administration of the Cou ncil's financial 

affairs, but not in respect of the formulation of a plan or strategy which is a function of the 

Cabinet (and subject to final approval by the Council) or detailed operational matters which 

are within the purview of the Cabinet. 

4.3 To review t he draft annual statement of accounts for the Council and the Pensions Fund. 

Specifically, to consider whether appropriate accounting policies have been followed and 

whether there are concerns arising from the financial statements or from the audit that 

ne ed to be brought to the attention of the Council. To consider the external auditor’s report 

to those charged with governance on issues arising from the audit of the accounts, and 

then to formally approve the audited annual statement of accounts. 

4.4 There is n o legal reason why the Committee cannot adopt the Recommendation contained 

in this report. 

4.5 There are no further comments from Democratic Services. 

5. CONSULTATION AND CO -PRODUCTION 

5.1 The Council’s response to the external auditor’s written recommendation is ba sed on work 

that has been produced with the input of officers from across the council. 

6. RISK MANAGEMENT 

6.1 Any risk implications arising from this report will be considered and addressed as part of 

the Council’s existing risk management arrangements. 

7. EQUALITIES IMPACT AS SESSMENT 

7.1 The Equality Act 2010 requires organisations exercising public functions to demonstrate 

that due regard has been paid to equalities in: 

 Elimination of unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other 

conduct pro hibited by the Equality Act 2010. 

 Advancement of equality of opportunity between people from different groups 

 Fostering of good relations between people from different groups 

7.2 An Equalities Impact Assessment is not required for this report. 8. COMMUNITY SAFET Y

8.1 There are no community safety implications arising from this report. 

9. CHILD FRIENDLY LAMBE TH 

9.1 There are no child related implications arising from this report. 

10. ORGANISATIONAL IMPLI CATIONS 

10.1 Any organisational implications arising from the Council’s response to the written 

recommendation will be considered and addressed through the Council’s normal 

governance and decision -making arrangements. 

11. TIMETABLE FOR IMPLEM ENTATION 

11.1 Not applicable. 

AUDIT TRAIL 

REPORT HISTORY 

Report deadline  16.01 .2 6

Date final report sent  21.01 .2 6

Part II Exempt from Disclosure/confidential 

accompanying report?  No 

Key decision report  No 

Date first appeared on forward plan  Not applicable 

Key decision reasons  Not applicable. 

Background information 

Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014 

Council Response to the External Auditors Written 

Recommendations Final 

Appendix A Recommendations under paragr aph 2 of 

Schedule 7 of the Local Audit and Accountability Act 

Appendix B Council Response to the Ext ernal Auditors 

Recommendations.pdf 

Public Notice.pdf 

Appendices  Appendix A – Action Plan 

Name and Position/Title  Lambeth Directorate  Date Sent  Date 

Received 

Comments in 

paragraph: 

Councillor Claire Holland  Leader of the Council  19.01.26  21.01.26 

Jacqueline Moylan, Interim 

of Finance  Resources  16.01.26  16.01.26 

Glenn Hammons, Interim 

Director of Finance  Resources  16.01.26  16.01.26 

Andrew Pavlou, Legal 

Services 

Communities, 

Governance and 

Change 

19.01.26  20.01.26 

Chloe Morris, Democratic 

Services  Resources  21.01.26  21.01.26
