Title: 346 Clapham Road London Stockwell West and Larkhall 2401346FUL.pdf

URL Source: https://moderngov.lambeth.gov.uk/documents/s173129/346%20Clapham%20Road%20ref%2024-01346-FUL%20PAC%20Report.pdf

Published Time: Tue, 27 Jan 2026 12:00:00 GMT

Number of Pages: 84

Markdown Content:
↑ To contents ↑ To contents 

# Application for Planning Permission 

Application ref:  24/0 1346 /FUL 

Site:  34 6 Clapham Road , London, SW9 9AP 

Ward:  Stockwell West & Larkhall 

Description:  Demolition of a 4 -storey office building (Use Class E) and 

redevelopment of the site involving the erection of a 7 -storey 

building to provide office floorspace (Use Class E(g)(i)) and 30 

residential units (Use Class C3) together with relocation of the 

subs tation, the provision of cycle and refuse store. 

Applicant:  Clap LP 

Agent:  SM Planning 

Case officer:  Jacques du Plessis 

Drawing nos.  See appendix 1 

Reason for PAC referral:  The application is reported to the Planning Application Committee 

in accordance with the committee’ s terms of reference as it 

relates to the provision of at least 10 dwellings and building where 

the floor space to be created by the development is at least 1,000 

square metres. 

Recommendation s:

1.  Resolve to grant conditional planning permission subject to the completion of a satisfactory 

deed under Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 containing the planning 

obligations as set out in this report, addenda and/or PAC minutes .

2.  Agree to delegate authority to the Director of Climate, Planning and Transport to: (a). Finalise 

the recommended conditions as set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes; and (b).

Negotiate, agree and finalise the planning obligations as set out in this report, addend a and/or 

PAC minutes pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 .

3.  In the event that the Committee resolves to refuse planning permission and there is a 

subsequent appeal, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport , having regard to this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes, to propose planning 

conditions and to negotiate and complete a document containing obligations pursuant to 

Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 in order to meet the requirement of the 

Planning Inspector. 

4.  In the event that a satisfactory Section 106 deed is not completed within six months of the date 

of the Committee meeting, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport to refuse planning permission for failure to enter into a Section 106 deed providing for 

the obligations considered necessary to make the development acceptable in planning terms as 

identified in this report, addenda and/or the PAC minutes. ↑ To contents 

# CONTENTS 

Section no.  Section description 

1 Summary of application 

1.1  Executive summary 

1.2  Relevant designations 

1.3  Key information 

1.4  Summary of c onsultation 

2 Site context and proposal 

2.1  Site description 

2.2  Proposal description 

2.3  Relevant planning history 

3 Consultation and engagement 

3.1  Pre -application engagement 

3.2  Application consultation – public consultation 

3.3  Application consultation – external, internal and other consultees 

4 Application assessment 

4.1  Planning policies 

4.2  Main planning considerations 

4.3  Other planning considerations 

4.4  Planning obligations and CIL 

4.5  Equality duty and human rights 

4.6  Planning balance and conclusion 

4.7  Recommendations 

5 Appendices 

1 - Draft decision notice 

2 - List of main planning policies 

3 - List of consultees 

4 - Site photographs ↑ To contents 

# 1. Summary of application 

# 1.1 Executive summary 

1.1.1  This application by SM Planning (the agent) on behalf of Clap LP (the applicant) is for 

demolition of the existing office building to construction of a mixed -use scheme comprising 

office floorspace at ground floor and flats on the upper floors. 

1.1.2  The principle of providing a mix -use development in this highly sustainable location is accepted. 

The development would provide 30x new homes in private tenure and a cash in lieu contribution 

of £390 ,000.00 for off -site provision of affordable housing , which has been agreed following a 

comprehensive review of the applicant’s viability assessment. Amendments were secured 

during the application by officers to remove the originally proposed basement. Whilst this has 

resulted in less replacement office floorspace than originally proposed, the scheme as originally 

proposed was not financially viable to make any contribution towards affordable housing. The 

amended mix of land uses is considered to be the most optimum in respect of delivery of key 

planning benefits of additional housing, a contribution towards off -site affordable housing, and 

replacement office floorspace. 

1.1.3  The layout, height, architectural design and approach are suitable for the site and surrounding s,

with a good standard of accommodation provided, and no harm caused to surrounding heritage 

assets .

1.1.4  A n umber of objections were received relating to the impact of the development on 

neighbouring properties. Careful consideration was given to the assessment which concluded 

that the proposal would not have unacceptable amenity impact s.

1.1.5  The site enjoys an excellent public transport accessibility rating of 6 a. Whil st the development 

prioritises car -free living, it provides 2x accessible parking spaces off -site on Union Road within 

a short distance to the site . The development's cycle parking provision is deemed acceptable. 

1.1.6  The London Plan energy hierarchy has been followed. A carbon emissions reduction of 78% for 

residential and 51% for non -residential against Building Regulations Part L 20 21 has been 

achieved, with a n anticipated carbon offset contribution of £ 14,905 to meet the 100% zero 

carbon target. 

1.1.7  The scheme w ould introduce opportunities for both landscaping and ecological improvements. 

The proposal is targeting an Urban Greening Factor of 0. 4 (any shortfall will result in a financial 

contribution given site limitations) and is anticipated to achieve a Biodiversity net gain 

exceeding the 10% nett gain required .

1.1.8  The development is expected to meet all technical requirements related to noise, vibration, air 

quality, land contamination, sustainability, flood risk mitigation, waste, and recycling. 

1.1.9  The proposed heads of terms establish a comprehensive set of planning obligations that 

effectively mitigate the potential impacts of the development. Financial contributions towards 

provision of off -site affordable housing , open space, employment and training, and transport 

matters as mitigation for the development have been secured . These obligations have been 

negotiated, considering the specific characteristics of the scheme and adhering to the statutory 

tests for Section 106 obligations outlined in the C ommunity Infrastructure Levy Regulations 

2010. ↑ To contents 

1.1.10  Overall, the scheme optimises the potential of this brownfield site through a design -led, 

housing -led mixed -use development. Officers are satisfied that the proposal complies with the 

Development Plan when considered as a whole, and that no material consid erations weigh 

against the grant of permission. 

# 1.2 Relevant designations 

## Type of designation  Applicable designation 

Air Quality Management Area  Applicable 

Archaeological Priority Areas  Applicable 

Area of Open Space Deficiency  Applicable 

Helipad Safeguarding  CAA Helipad Safeguarding Zone 

Public Transport Accessibility Level (PTAL)  6a 

Smoke Control Area  Applicable 

Tunnel Safeguarding line  Applicable 

# 1.3 Key information 

# Site area 

## Total site area (sqm)  Total site area (hectares(ha)) 

845sqm  0. 0845 

# Floorspace comparison 

## Use description  Use class  Floorspace ( sqm )

## (Gross Internal Area) 

Existing  Office  E(g)(i)  972 

Proposed  Commercial, Business and 

Service 

E 25 9

Dwellings  C3  2,7 50 

Substation, plant  - 56 

Total proposed  3,009 ↑ To contents 

# Housing details 

## Residential type  No. of bedrooms per unit  No. of 

## habitable 

## rooms Studio  1 2 3 Total 

Proposed  Low cost rented 

(Social rent) 

0 0 0 0 0 0

Intermediate (London 

Shared Ownership) 

0 0 0 0 0 0

Private / market  0 11  15  4 30  84

Total 

proposed 

0 11  15  4 30  84

# Affordable housing 

## Payment in lieu towards delivering off -site affordable housin g

Amount  Percentage equivalent (target 35%) 

£390,000.00  8%

# Parking 

## Car parking 

Car parking spaces (general)  Car parking spaces (disabled) 

Existing  9 0

Proposed  0 2 off -site spaces 

## Bicycle spaces 

Short stay  Long stay 

Existing  0 0

Proposed  4 62 ↑ To contents 

# Environmental performance 

## Energy 

Policy target  Proposed 

Percentage of on -site carbon 

savings beyond Part L of Building 

Regulations (2021) 

35%  79%

Percentage of on -site carbon 

savings achieved through energy 

efficiency measures 

Residential - 10% 

Non -residential - 15% 

13 %

6%

Off -site reduction ( %) and/or 

carbon offset contribution 

Shortfall to net -zero 

carbon target  Currently anticipated to 

be £ 14,905 .00 

Unregulated carbon emissions  Major developments 

should calculate and 

minimise unregulated 

carbon emissions 

Details provided, and 

are acceptable 

## Sustainability 

BREEAM score  Excellent  Excellent 

Urban Greening Factor (UGF) 

0.4 

Targeting 0.4 (Any 

shortfall will result in a 

financial contribution )

Biodiversity Net Gain (BNG)  Positive  Positive 

# Legal services clearance 

## Name / 

## position 

## Lambeth 

## department 

## Date sent  Date 

## received 

## Report 

## cleare d

## Comments 

## in para: 

Christopher 

Allingham 

Principal 

Property, 

Planning & 

Regeneration 

Lawyer 

Legal 

Services 

29 /10/2025  08/01/2026  08/01/2026  Throughout 

document. All 

addresse d.

# 1.4 Summary of c onsultation 

1.4.1  Letters were sent to adjoining properties and notices were placed nearby the site. 143 x

properties were consulted on the application. At the time of writing, there wer e 30 x responses in 

objection and 2 x responses in support of the application . One petition was received 

representing 20 residents in Singer Mews objecting to the proposals .↑ To contents 

# 2. Site c ontext and proposal 

# 2.1 Site description 

# The application site 

2.1.1  Th e application site ( ‘the Site ’) is approximately 845sqm in size and it is located on the west 

side of Clapham Road on a prominent corner at the junction with Union Road , as shown in 

Figure 1 below. 

Figure 1: Google Earth view of t he Site outlined in red, and the wider context 

2.1.2  The Site contains a 4-storey s mid -century office building with large forecourt and street frontage 

to both Clapham Road and Union Road. To the rear of the building there are 9x car parking 

spaces. The existing building provid es approximately 972sqm of Gross Internal Area (GIA) of 

office floorspace. The footprint of the building measures 270sqm and covers 32% of the Site. 

Figure 2 and 3 : Photographs of the existing building at the Site (front and 

side) ↑ To contents 

# The surrounding are a

2.1.3  The surrounding area is characterised as commercial and residential uses . To the north and 

west of the Site there is Singer Mews development which comprises commercial floorspace at 

ground floor and residential flats on the upper floors varying in height between 5 to 6 storeys. 

Beyond Singer Mews to the north there is a recently completed mix -use development at 340a 

Clapham Road comprising commercial floorspace at lower and ground floor and residential flats 

on the upper floors. The building varies in height and goes up to 9 -storeys. 

2.1.4  To the east of the Site and , on the other side of Clapham Road , there are 3-storey Victorian 

homes and a 5 -storey 20 th century residential block knows as Ru sper Court Estate .

2.1.5  To the south of the Site and on the other side of Union Road there is 3-storey locally listed 

public house known as the Phoenix , a 2-storey end of terrace building, and 4 -storey mixed use 

building with commercial floorspace at ground floor and residential flats on the upper floors. 

# The Site designations 

Employment 

2.1.6  The Site falls on the edge of centre location , approximately 200m north of the Stockwell District 

Centre . It is also located east of a Key Industrial and Business Area (KIBA) .

Heritage 

2.1.7  The Site does not have any statutory or locally listed building . It is opposite the Phoenix Public 

House which is a locally listed building at 348 Clapham Road. 

2.1.8  The Site does not sit within a conservation area , but it is close to t wo , they are the Clapham 

Road Conservation approximately 30 metres to the south -east and the Sibella Road 

Conservation area approximately 40 metres to the south -wes t of the Site .

2.1.9  The Site is located within an Archaeological Priority Area. 

2.1.10  The Site is within the designated local views north -west of Brixton Landmarks (Lambeth’s Town 

Hall’s tower and St Matthew’s church towers) and views north and north -east to the City ( LLP 

Policy Q25 (b)). 

Transport 

2.1.11  Clapham Road (A3 ) form s part of the Transport for London Road Network (TLRN). 

2.1.12  The Site is located within Controlled Paring Zone (CPZ), Code S, operating Monday to Friday 

between 8:30am and 17:30pm. 

2.1.13  The Site has Public Transport Access Level (PTAL) is 6a (on a scale of 0 to 6b, where 6b 

represents the greatest level of access to public transport services). 

Environment 

2.1.14  The Site is located within Flood Zone 1. 

2.1.15  The Site is within an area of open space deficiency for district parks and is in an area of 

deficiency in access to nature. It is also within an air quality focus area. ↑ To contents 

Figure 4: Planning policy constrains map 

# 2.2 Proposal description 

2.2.1  The submitted drawings and documents for the application can be found at:  Simple Search 

(lambeth.gov.uk)  with the planning application reference 24/01346/FUL. 

2.2.2  Full planning permission is sought for demolition of the existing 4 storey office building (see 

Figure 2 and 3 above) and the construction of a new building that would comprise 259 sqm of 

commercial floorspace at ground level and 30x self -contained residential flats over the upper 

floors (see Figure 5 below) .

2.2.3  The proposed building would be 7-sto reys in height ( 32.11m ) and it would cover most of the Site 

(86%) .

2.2.4  One new street tree is proposed to be planted along Clapham Road and the existing tree on 

Union Road will be retained. The building would have green roof. The highest part of the 

building would have solar panels fitted over the green roof to improve the sustainability of the 

development .↑ To contents 

2.2.5  The external material s for the part of the building facing Union Road would be brown brick ,

bronze coloured metal at the base of the building, and dark metal railings and windows .

2.2.6  The external material s for the part of the building on the corner between Union Road and 

Clapham Road would be green ceramic cladding with natural colour variation, mid -toned metal 

railing and window frames, sliding metal mesh privacy panels to balconies and roof and blue 

ceramic cladding at the base of the building .

2.2.7  The external material s for the part of the building facing Clapham Road would be mid -light 

brown/buff brick, dark metal railings, bronze coloured metal at the base of the building, and 

sliding metal mesh privacy panels to balconies and roof .

Figure 5: View of the proposed building from Union Road and Clapham Road junction 

(Source: DAS) 

# Amendments 

2.2.8  The applicant submitted additional information to address some of the issues mentioned during 

the consultation . The additional information included: 

• Changes to proposed housing mix and submission of updated plans 

• Reduction of office floorspace and removal of basement 

• Changes to the layout of homes 

• Respon ses and further amendments to the viability information 

• Response s to the issues raised by Arup (Council’s appointed consultant on daylight and 

sunlight impacts) in their initial review of the daylight and sunlight assessment 

• Response to fire safety concerns 

2.2.9  These documents provided clarification and supplementary technical information in support of 

the application. As some of the changes have materially altered the application a further 

consultation was carried out between 20.06.2025 and 04.07.2025. ↑ To contents 

2.2.10  The ground floor landscaping scheme has been amended which delivers less trees than initially 

proposed as the trees were located outside the application site on TfL highway land. Proposals 

now indicate that the tree on Union Road will be retained and there is room to deliver one new 

tree along Clapham Road within the application site. Re -consultation on these changes were 

not considered necessary. 

# 2.3 Relevant planning history 

2.3.1  The Site has extensive planning history. All submitted applications can be found at : Simple 

Search (lambeth.gov.uk)  with the planning application reference 24/01346/FUL under related 

cases tab. 

# Application site 

2.3.2  The relevant planning history for the Site is as follows: 

2.3.3  17/06126/P30 – Prior Approved Refused – Decision date: 15.02.20218 

Prior Approval for the change of use from an office (Use Class B1(a)) to 20 residential units. 

Reason for refusal: 

1.  The proposals fail to comply with Schedule 2, Part 3, Class O.2 (1) (a) of The Town and 

Country Planning (General Permitted Development) (England) (Amendment) Order 2015 

(as amended 2016). The proposed development would be unacceptable in transport and 

hig hways terms, for the following reasons: (ii). The proposed development would provide 

insufficient and inappropriate cycle parking storage; (iii). Insufficient information has 

been provided to demonstrate the servicing of the proposed development would not 

have unacceptable impact on the local transport network; and (iiii). In the absence of a 

completed Section 106 agreement removing the rights of future occupiers from obtaining 

on -street car parking permits, providing car club membership for future resident s for a 

period of four years, and securing at least two disabled car parking spaces, the 

proposed development would have an adverse impact upon the operation of the local 

transport network due to the increased pressure on parking on the surrounding streets .

The proposed development would fail to achieve the objectives within Section 4 of the 

National Planning Policy Framework (2012). 

2.3.4  18/01637/P3O – Prior Approval Approved – Decision date: 04.06.2018 

Prior Approval for the change of use from an office (Use Class B1(a)) to 20 residential units .

2.3.5  19/04768/FUL – Application Refused – Decision date: 30.09.2021 

Demolition of existing building and erection of a part 6 and part 7 storey building plus basement 

to provide 2,877sqm of office space (Use Class E(g)(i)) and 9 residential units (Use Class C3), 

with provision of cycle/refuse stores and a substatio n. 

Reason for refusal: 

1.  The proposal would result in a significant increase of office space (1,905sq.m) and 

insufficient information has been provided to demonstrate there are no preferred sites to 

accommodate such increase within a town centre. The proposed large increase of offi ce 

space would be contrary to Policies E1 and SD7 of the London Plan 2021 and Policy 

ED7 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021. ↑ To contents 

2.  No evidence has been submitted to demonstrate the proposed office would provide 

flexible workspace and affordable workspace on site. This conflicts with Policy ED1 and 

ED2 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021 and Policies E1, E2 and E3 of the London Plan 

2021. 

3.  The proposed 4 x one -bedroom flats would be of poor quality, by reason of their 

insufficient gross internal area, undersized bedroom, insufficient build in storage space 

and under provision of private amenity space. In addition, the quality of the provided 

small outdoor space would be poor given that its triangle shape would make most of the 

space unusable. This is contrary to Policy H5 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021 and Policy 

D6 of the London Plan 2021. 

4.  The proposed building would not be of quality design, by reason of its siting, building 

line, design, appearance and materials. The proposed forward projection along Clapham 

Road would not align with and it would appear overly dominant in relation to the 

neighbouring building at 342 Clapham Road (also known as Singer Mews) and when 

viewed from the junction of Clapham Road and Union Road. The appearance of the 

proposed Clapham Road façade would be poor, and not well detailed. The proposal fails 

to enhance or preserve the prevailing local character. As such the proposal is contrary to 

Policies Q5 and Q7 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021. 

5.  The proposed development, by reason of its scale and massing and proximity to 

neighbouring residential properties, would adversely impact on amenity due to the loss 

of outlook, sense of enclosure and sunlight and daylight received by residential 

occupiers in 2 Union Road, 4 to 7 Singer Mews and 342 to 344 Clapham Road. As such, 

the proposal would be contrary to Policies Q2 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021 and D6 of 

the London Plan 2021. 

6.  The site is within an area of open space deficiency for district parks and is in an area of 

deficiency in access to nature. The application makes no on site provision for open 

space, it has not been demonstrated it is not feasible to provide this and no pa yment in 

lieu has been secured via s106 agreement. As such the proposal is contrary to Policy 

EN1 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021. 

7.  The application has not demonstrated sufficient greening and biodiversity gain, the 

proposed the urban greening factor UGF of 0.23 is significantly under the target of 0.4. 

The proposal is contrary to Policies G5 and G6 of the London Plan 2021 and Policy E N1 

of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021. 

8.  The application has failed to demonstrate that sustainable design standards are integral 

to the design, construction and operation of the development. The commercial element 

has not demonstrated a minimum BREEAM certificate of Excellent and the residential 

development does not provide Home Quality mark or Passive house design standards. 

The submitted information is insufficient and contains inaccuracies. The proposed 

development would fail to comply with Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021 and 

Policie s SI2, SI4 and SI5 of the London Plan 2021. 

9.  The application has the potential to impact on highways safety and result in increase on -

street parking pressure. In the absence of the benefit of a healthy routes financial 

contribution, travel plan, cycle hire membership, car club membership and car perm it ↑ To contents 

capping legal agreement the application is considered to be unacceptable as it could 

result in an increase in parking pressure in the area contrary to Policies T1, T3, T4 and 

T6 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021 and Policies T2, T4, T5 and T6 (T6.1 and T6.2) of 

the London Plan 2021. 

10.  In the absence of Employment and skills plan and financial contribution secured via a 

s106 legal agreement, the proposed development has not demonstrated that local 

employment opportunities would be maximised. This is contrary to Policy ED15 of the 

Lambeth Local Plan 2021 and Policy E11 of the London Plan 2021. 

# Surrounding area 

2.3.6  4-14b Union Road and 342 -344 Clapham Road - Ref: 06/03159/FUL – Granted permission –

Decision date: 29.03.2018 

Redevelopment of the site, involving the erection of four blocks of part -six/part -seven storeys 

(including lower ground floor level) to create 65 residential units, 12 work -live units and four 

office units (962sq.m of B1 floorspace), together with provision of 14 car -parking spaces, cycle 

parking and associated landscaping. 

2.3.7  340A Clapham Road – Ref: 16/0666 8/FUL – Granted permission – Decision Date: 21.06.2017 

Redevelopment of the site involving demolition of existing building and erection of a building up 

to 9 -storeys in height plus basement level to provide offices (Use Class B1) at lower ground and 

ground floor, a cafe (Use Class A1) at ground floor and 62 re sidential units (Use Class C3) at 

upper floor levels, together with provision of cycle parking, refuse storage and amenity space. 

2.3.8  330 -340 Clapham Road – Ref: 13/03248/FUL – Granted permission – Decision Date: 

20.01.2014 

Demolition of the existing buildings and redevelopment of the site, involving the erection of a 

building of part -five/part six storeys (including lower ground floor level) fronting Clapham Road, 

stepping down to four storeys (including lower ground floor l evel) fronting Jeffreys Road, a three 

storey building on the site of 19 Jeffreys Road, and 19 three and four -storey houses within the 

site and 1 three -storey house fronting Jeffreys Road to provide a mixed use scheme 

incorporating office (B1 Use Class), re tail (A1 Use Class), and cafe (A3 Use Class) uses to 

provide 3,149sqm of commercial space, together with 79 residential units (including 31 

affordable units) and associated access, servicing, refuse storage, car and cycle parking, and 

landscaped amenity ar eas. (This application is a departure from policy S3 of the Core Strategy 

2011). Consultation and engagement 

# 2.4 Pre -application engagement 

2.4.1  The Applicant has submitted a pre -application request to discuss the proposed development 

before it was submitted. The design of the elevations, use, transport, standard of 

accommodation for residential and co -living aspect of the development have been di scussed 

during the pre -application discussions. 

# 2.5 Application consultation - public consultation 

2.5.1  Public consultation was undertaken in accordance with statutory and Council requirements. 

2.5.2  Letters were sent to a total of 152 properties surrounding the Sit e. A site notice was displayed 

around the Site on 12.0 7.20 24 , and a press notice was posted on 08.0 7.20 24 . The first p ublic 

consultation ended on 23.0 7.20 24 .↑ To contents 

2.5.3  A second public consultation was carried between 20.06.2025 and 04.07.2025 given the 

amendments summarised in S ection 2.2.8 of this report. 

2.5.4  In total , representations were received from 32 properties , comprising of 30 comments objecting 

and two comments in support . These are summarised and responded to below: 

## OBJECTING COMMENTS 

## Summary of comments  Officer response 

Land u se 

The proposed commercial floorspace is not 

needed there is no demand for it .

The proposed office space has been 

reduced. The quantum is considered 

acceptable, see the ‘Principle of land use’ 

section at paragraphs 4.2.8 to 4.2.14 of the 

report. 

Affordable housing 

Lack of affordable housing . The proposed development would provide a 

contribution towards off -site provision of 

affordable housing. Detail ed response s to 

the raised issues are discussed and 

assessed under the ‘Affordable housing’ 

section of the report at paragraphs 4.2. 23 –

4.2. 29 .

Design 

The height of the building (7 -storeys) is at 

odds with the prevailing height in the 

surrounding area .

The proposed development has been 

designed to ensure that it optimises the 

development of this brownfield site for 

housing, and so that it fits in well with the 

existing build layout, fo rm, scale, and 

character and that it positively responds to 

the nearby heritage assets. Detail ed 

response s to the raised issues are 

discussed and assessed under ‘Design’ 

section of the report at paragraphs 4.2. 37 –

4.2. 47.

Amenity impact ↑ To contents 

• Loss of daylight and sunlight due to 

increase in the height of the building. 

• Daylight and sunlight report has errors. 

• Noise and disturbance. 

• Impact on Right s of Light (RoL). 

The scheme has been assessed against the 

relevant planning policy at regional and 

local level which sets clear criteria to ensure 

that all aspect of development does not 

result in adverse impact. Detail ed 

response s to the raised issues are 

discussed and assessed under ‘Amenity 

impact’ section of the report at paragraphs 

4.2.9 3 – 4.2.12 7.

Rights of Light are not material planning 

considerations. 

## SUPPORTING COMMENTS 

## Summary of comments  Officer response 

Land use 

The scheme would make productive use of 

long -disused land. 

Noted. 

Housing 

Severe housing shortage in London and this 

is a well -connected site a nd suitable for 

higher -density development. It would deliver 

modern, well -insulated homes and increase 

overall housing supply. 

Noted. 

Massing, design 

The proposed height is considered 

appropriate and consistent with nearby 

buildings, including Singer Mews. The 

design is regarded as fitting well with the 

character of the area. 

Noted. 

Amenity impact 

Positive economic impact on local shops 

and amenities from additional residents. 

Some consider concerns about limited 

daylight impacts to be outweighed by the 

wider public benefits of providing much -

needed homes. 

Noted. ↑ To contents 

# 2.6 Application consultation – external , internal , and other 

# consultees 

# External consultees 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Health and Safety Executive (HSE) 

Absence of a Required Firefighting Shaft 

The building exceeds 18m in height, which 

triggers the requirement for a firefighting shaft 

with a firefighting lift, in line with ADB Vol.1 

clause 15.2 and BS 9999. 

Inappropriate Connection Between 

Residential and Commercial Areas 

The design currently allows communication 

between residential (upper storeys) and 

commercial/lower ground spaces . This 

conflicts with BS 9991 requirements for 

mixed -use buildings, which state that 

residential and commercial occupancies must 

be separated by fire -resisting construction. 

Incomplete Fire Statement (Planning 

Gateway One Requirement) 

The Fire Statement (dated June 2024) is 

incomplete and does not explain the fire -

safety strategy for a new Higher -Risk 

Building. Future submissions must follow 

MHCLG (now DLUHC) Fire Statement 

guidance and be prepared by a competent 

person. 

Sprinkler Provision Concerns 

The Fire Statement proposes partial 

residential sprinklers (L1 –L6) and f ull 

sprinklers to commercial floors . ADB requires 

residential buildings above 11m to have 

sprinklers throughout the entire building, 

including within individual flats (communal 

areas may be exempt if fire -sterile). 

Revised drawings were submitted on 6 

November 2025 to address the concerns 

raised as it required changes to floor 

layouts. Should permission be granted, an

updated Fire Strategy has been secured 

(see Condition 18).

Historic England – Greater London 

Archaeological Advisory Service 

No further assessment or conditions are 

necessary. 

Noted. 

London Fire Brigade ↑ To contents 

No comments or observations to made.  Noted. 

Metropolitan Police (Designing out Crime) 

Pre -Commencement and Pre -Occupation 

conditions are recommended to ensure end -

to -end compliance with Secured by Design. 

Should permission be granted, the 

recommended conditions have been 

secured (see Condition 2 7). 

Transport for London (TfL) Infrastructure 

Protection 

No objection but conditions requesting 

submission of foundation s and design of the 

building are recommended. 

Should permission be granted, the 

recommended conditions have been 

secured (see Condition 1 3).

TfL (Spatial planning) 

No objection but short stay cycle parking 

should be removed form TLRN and required 

works should be secured. 

The cycle parking was removed from TLRN. 

Should permission be granted, the 

pavement would be reinstated by the S278 

works, to be secured through the S106 

deed .

UK Power Networks 

No objection. Property & Consents at UK 

Power Networks wanted to know if access to 

the substations will not be affected by the 

building works/alterations, as UK Power 

Networks require access 24/7. 

The applicant confirmed that the access 

would still be granted. 

# Internal consultees 

## Summary of comments  Officer response 

Conservation and Design 

## No objection . Comments have been considered 

throughout the report in ‘Design’, ‘ Strategic 

and local views’, and ‘Heritage impact’ 

sections at paragraph s 4.2. 37 - 4.2. 47, 

4.2.48 - 4.2.52, and 4.2. 53 - 4.2.68 

retrospectively .

Daylight and Sunlight (Arup) 

Arup has undertaken a review on behalf of 

the Council, and they agreed with the 

applicant conclusion that levels of daylight 

and sunlight would be acceptable or good for 

an urban context. 

Comments have been considered 

throughout the report in ‘Amenity’ and 

‘Standard of accommodation’ sections at 

paragraph s 4.2.94 - 4.2.118 and 4.2.164 -

4.2.168 retrospectively .↑ To contents 

Development Infrastructure 

No objection . Please consult Development 

Infrastructure (DI) on a S106 agreement. 

Noted. 

Energy / Sustainability (Blewburton) 

Blewburton has undertaken a review on 

behalf of the Council . G ood level of detail has 

been provided to demonstrate that all 

relevant targets will be met. There is no 

objection subject to securing a carbon offset 

payment and several detailed conditions .

Comments have been considered 

throughout the report in ‘Sustainable design 

and construction’ section of the report at 

paragraphs 4.2.69 - 4.2.92 . Should 

permission be granted, the recommended 

planning obligations and conditions have 

been secured (see Conditions 8, 2 0, 2 5, 3 0,

31, 3 2, 3 3, 3 4, 3 5, 3 6, 3 7, 3 8 and 39 ).

Environment al Protection (RSS) 

RSS has undertaken a review on behalf of 

the Council, there is no objection subject to 

securing several conditions relating to land 

contamination, noise, air quality. 

Comments have been considered 

throughout the report in ‘Amenity’ and 

‘Standard of accommodation’ sections at 

paragraph 4.2.93 - 4.2.127 and 4.2.157 -

4.2.184 retrospectively . Should permission 

be granted, the recommended conditions 

have been secured (see Conditions 1 2, 1 4,

15, 19 , 2 0, 29 and 4 3).

Flood Risk 

Acceptable subject to conditions.  Comments have been considered 

throughout the report in ‘Flood risk and 

drainage’ section of the report at paragraphs 

4.3.12 - 4.3.15 . Should permission be 

granted, the recommended conditions have 

been secured (see Conditions 1 7 and 4 6).

Transport 

Accessibility and density 

The proposed development site has a PTAL 

rating of 6(a) which is classified as excellent. 

Trip generation 

The trip generation associated with the 

proposal is not considered to have significant 

implications on local highway and footway. 

Public transport network will be able to 

absorb any net increase given the excellent 

PTAL rating, but TfL would state otherwis e, if 

this was not the case. 

Comments have been considered 

throughout the ‘Transport’ section of the 

report at paragraphs 4.2.128 - 4.2.156 

below. Should permission be granted in line 

with the recommendation , the 

recommended planning obligations and 

conditions will be secured accordingly (see 

Conditions 1 1, 1 2, 4 0, 4 1 and 4 5). ↑ To contents 

Cycle parking 

The proposed development provides the 

required number of long and short -stay cycle 

parking spaces, ensuring that 5% of spaces 

are for adapted / larger cycles and 

approximately 25% spaces are Sheffield 

stands. Please secure cycle hire for minimum 

of 3 -years for future residents. 

Car parking 

The development would be car free. 2x 

disabled car parking spaces can be secured 

off -site but a contribution of £40,000 is 

needed. Please secured car club 

membership for minimum of 3 -years for 

future residents. 

Travel plan 

Submitted travel plan is accepted. Please 

secure the plan and its monitoring through 

s106. 

Healthy routes 

The likely contribution to be secured would 

be £25,000 .00 for design development work 

on Slade Green Healthy Neighbourhood. 

Viability (Avison Young) 

The amended proposal can viably provide a 

financial contribution of £ 390,000.00 .

Comments have been considered 

throughout the ‘Housing’ section of the 

report at paragraphs 4.2. 23 - 4.2. 36 below. 

Waste Contractor 

No objection.  Noted. 

# Other consultees 

## Summary of comments  Officer response 

Bell Ribeiro -Addy MP 

Concerns raised with: 

• Height of the development 

• Impact the building would have on light 

and privacy 

• Worry about the proposed commercial 

spaces 

• Lack of affordable housing 

Noted. ↑ To contents 

# 3. Application assessment 

# 3.1 Planning policies 

3.1.1  Section 38(6) of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 requires planning decisions 

to be made in accordance with the development plan unless material considerations indicate 

otherwise. 

3.1.2  The development plan for the Site is the London Plan 2021 (‘LP’), and the Lambeth Local Plan 

2021 (‘LLP’). 

3.1.3  The National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) was last revised in 2024. This document sets 

out the Government’s planning policies for England including the presumption in favor of 

sustainable development. It is a material consideration in the determination of all applications. 

3.1.4  The application has been considered against all relevant national policies and development plan 

policies, as well as any relevant guidance. A list of the main relevant policies and guidance has 

been set out in Appendix 2 to this report. 

3.1.5  The report addresses compliance with specific development plan policies. The planning balance 

section of the report sets out an assessment of whether, overall, there is compliance with the 

development plan. 

# 3.2 Main planning considerations 

3.2.1  The main planning issues raised by the application that the Committee must consider are :

• Principle of land use 

• Housing 

• Design 

• Strategic and local views 

• Heritage impact 

• Sustainable design and construction 

• Amenity impact 

• Transport 

• Standard of accommodation 

• Trees, landscap ing and ecology 

# Principle of land us e

Presumption in favour of sustainable development 

3.2.2  The NPPF sets the presumption in favour of sustainable development, and this is reflected in 

LLP Policy D2 and the other policies in the plan. LLP Policy D2 states that the Council will 

always work proactively with applicants jointly to find solutions whic h mean that proposals can 

be approved wherever possible and to secure development that improves the economic, social 

and environmental conditions in Lambeth. 

3.2.3  According to the most recent Housing Delivery test (published 12 December 2024), Lambeth 

delivered 74% of its housing target in the three years between 2020 -2023. Pursuant to 

paragraph 79 (c) of the NPPF, Lambeth is therefore subject to sanctions which inv olve 

preparing an Action Plan to demonstrate how we will accelerate housing delivery, plan for ↑ To contents 

additional housing and is subject to a strengthened presumption in favour of sustainable 

development when assessing and determining planning applications. 

3.2.4  The ‘tilted balance’ within paragraph 11(d) of the NPPF is also now engaged. This means that 

the development plan policies relating to the provision of housing are out -of -date and 

permission should therefore be granted to applications involving the provisi on of sustainable 

housing development, unless: 

“(i) The application of policies in this Framework that protect areas or assets of particular 

importance provides a strong reason for refusing the development proposed; or 

(ii) any adverse impacts of doing so would significantly and demonstrably outweigh the 

benefits, when assessed against the policies in this Framework taken as a whole, having 

particular regard to key policies for directing development to sustainable locations, making 

effective use of land, securing well -designed places and providing affordable homes, 

individually or in combination." 

Making effective use of land 

3.2.5  Chapter 11 of the NPPF seeks to promote the effective use of land and para. 123 states: 

Planning policies and decisions should promote an effective use of land in meeting the need 

for homes and other uses, while safeguarding and improving the environment and ensuring 

safe and healthy living conditions. Strategic policies should set out a clea r strategy for 

accommodating objectively assessed needs, in a way that makes as much use as possible of 

previously developed or ‘brownfield’ land. 

3.2.6  This is carried forward in various policies in the LP . LP Policy GG2 seeks to enable 

development of brownfield land, among other areas, and prioritise sites which are well 

connected by public transport. 

3.2.7  Significantly, the recently published NPPF (2024) has strengthened the policy presumption in 

favour of development of brownfield land, amending it at paragraph 125(c) as underlined below 

to stat that planning decisions should: 

“give substantial weight to the value of using suitable brownfield land within settlements for 

homes and other identified needs, proposals for which should be approved unless substantial 

harm would be caused ”

Office use 

3.2.8  LP Policy E 2, Part C, notes that p roposals that involve the loss of existing B Use Class business 

space should demonstrate that there is no reasonable prospect of the site being used for 

business or ensure that an equivalent amount of B Use Class business space is re -provided in 

the proposal which is appropriate in terms of type, use and size. 

3.2.9  LLP Policy ED1 , Part D, outlines that redevelopment of offices for mixed use developments 

would be supported if the quantity of the original office space is replaced or increased as part of 

the development. Outside of the CAZ, partial replacement of existing office floorspace in mixed 

use developments may be supported where it is demonstrated that the maximum feasible and 

viable quantity of replacement office floorspace has been provided and where there are other 

significant planning benefits are delivered. 

3.2.10  The existing building contains 972sqm GIA of office floorspace (Use Class E(g)(i)). The most 

recent planning application (ref: 19/04768/FUL) was refused, partly because the Site lies ↑ To contents 

outside a designated town centre and the proposal sought to replace the building with one 

providing 1,905sqm of office space , an increase of 933sqm (95%) over the existing provision. 

3.2.11  When the current application was first submitted, it proposed re -providing 655sqm GIA of office 

floorspace (68% re -provision) at basement and ground floor . There were concerns with the lack 

of provision of affordable housing and the ability for the applicant to make a financial 

contribution in lieu of on -site affordable housing. 

3.2.12  At the request of officers, the applicant prepared a viability assessment (prepared by DS2) 

which was independently reviewed by the Council’s consultant , Avison Young (AY). The review 

confirmed that the re -provision of office floorspace , would have a negative impact on viability. 

Following negotiations with the applicant, this was reduced to 2 59 sqm GIA (2 7% re -provision) 

by removing the basement. This was necessary to optimise the delivery of housing and 

affordable housing, whilst ensuring the re -provision of office floorspace . This represents the 

maximum feasible and viable amount of office floorspace deliverable within the scheme and 

enables a contribution towards the delivery of off -site affordable housing .

3.2.13  The proposed 259 sqm GIA of office floorspace would be provided as three separate units which 

would be served by a separate bin and bicycle store. The units would be of a different size ,

measurin g 53sqm, 74 sqm, and 8 3sqm Net Internal Area (NIA) . The units could be rented 

individually or together to respond to the requirements of end users and market conditions. 

3.2.14  Considering the above , officers are satisfied that the requirements of the polic ies are met and 

that the proposal with the reduced office floorspace would deliver a better development than the 

originally submitted scheme . The proposal complie s with LP Polic ies E1 and E2, and LLP Policy 

ED1. 

Affordable office space 

3.2.15  LLP Policy ED1 (F) states that development proposals for new office floorspace greater than 

2,000 sqm (gross external area) should consider the scope to provide a proportion of flexible 

workspace suitable for micro, small and medium -sized enterprises, in accordance with LP P olicy 

E2. This can include a variety of types of space including serviced offices and co -working 

space. Opportunities for long -term management of the flexible workspace by a company 

specialising in the management of this type of space sho uld be fully explored. 

3.2.16  The previous application (ref: 19/04768/FUL) was refused partly due to the lack of flexible 

workspace provision. In contrast, the current proposal reduces office floorspace from 921sqm to 

255sqm GIA, meaning the policy requirement is not triggered. 

Proposed new use – Housing 

3.2.17  LP Policy H1 sets out the Mayor’s approach to increasing housing supply, with a particular focus 

on accessible brownfield sites. A target of 13,350 new homes over a ten -year period (Table 4.1 

of the LP) is proposed within Lambeth. 

3.2.18  LLP Policy H1 seeks to maximise the supply of additional homes in the borough to meet and 

exceed Lambeth’s housing requirement for the ten -year period. This would be achieved by: 

• Optimising potential housing capacity on all suitable brownfield sites 

• Supporting proposals that provide an appropriate mix of sizes, types, and tenures in 

line with the development plan 

• Maximising residential density through a design -led approach (LP Policy D1(B)) 

• Encouraging appropriate windfall site development ↑ To contents 

3.2.19  The development proposes 30 x new homes , this represents a 2.24 % contribution towards the 

borough’s annual housing target of 1,335 homes. In this context, the contribution of the 

development to Lambeth’s housing supply is significant and should be afforded appropriate 

weight. Details of housing type, tenure mix, and affordable housing provision are addressed in 

the ‘Housing’ section of this report, while design -led density considerations are covered in the 

‘Design’ section. The proposal is considered compliant with LP Policy H1 and LLP Policy H1. 

Impact on existing social infrastructure 

3.2.20  LLP Policy S2(C) requires development proposals for more than 25 residential units to be 

supported by an assessment of anticipated impact on social infrastructure, including impact on 

the quality and sustainability of existing provision. Paragraph 7.19 sup porting LLP Policy S2(D) 

states that the assessment should include schools, children’s centres, primary health care 

facilities, libraries, community centres and any other forms of social infrastructure relevant to the 

site. 

3.2.21  The submitted Infrastructure Sufficiency Statement (prepared by Greengage, ref: 

552503OB06Aug23DV02_Infrastrucure_Statement.docx) assessed the impacts of the 

development on the existing social infrastructure. The statement concluded that overall, the 

proposed development would have negligible impact on local infrastructure capacity. The 

required CIL payment would support the Council ’s Infrastructure Delivery Plan and allow for 

improvements to be made. Therefore, the proposal would comply with LLP Policy S2. 

Summary 

3.2.22  The proposed mix ed -use development consisting of residential and office floorspace is 

considered acceptable in principle, aligning with national, regional, and local planning policies 

that promote the efficient use of land, sustainable urban regeneration, and economic growth. 

# Housing 

Affordable housing and tenure mix 

3.2.23  The beginning of the agenda pack explains the policy context for affordable housing 

considerations. For this application, the threshold level of affordable housing is 35 per cent of 

gross residential development on habitable rooms, as per LP Policy H5. 

3.2.24  LLP Policy H2 sets out the required tenure mix of affordable housing, based on units. This is 

explained further at the beginning of the Agenda pack. 

3.2.25  The scheme proposes 30x new homes. Policy requires applications proposing more than 25 

units (gross) to provide all affordable housing on site to be eligible for the Fast Track Route. 

However, where it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Council that this is not feasible, or 

that it would be more effective in meeting needs for affordable ho using , off -site affordable 

accommodation provided by the developer may be acceptable. Furthermore, exceptionally, a 

payment in lieu may be accept ed, however, such schemes must follow the Viability Tested 

Route. 

3.2.26  The submitted Financial Viability Assessment (FVA) and addend a prepared by DS2 were 

independently reviewed by Avison Young (AY) , the Council’s appointed viability consultant. This 

matter was discussed extensively with the applicant during the determination of the application .

3.2.27  The proposal as originally submitted included a basement with additional office floorspace. The 

FVA showed that it was not viable to provide any on -site affordable housing or a Payment in ↑ To contents 

Lieu (PIL) towards off -site affordable housing. This was agreed by AY. Officers sought 

amendments to the scheme following this, to improve development viability and secure a 

contribution towards affordable housing from the development. 

3.2.28  Subsequently, the proposals were revised to reduce the amount of office floorspace and 

remove the basement , where most of the proposed office floorspace was located. This change 

was progressed because the accommodation provided at basement level would be inferior to 

other similar unit s and the reduction showed to have a positive impact on the viability of the 

development. AY confirmed that a Payment in Lieu (PIL) of £ 390,000.00 could be viably 

secured following these changes , equivalent to 8% affordable hou sing on -site. Following careful 

consideration, officers agree that exceptional circumstances exist and a PIL can be accepted 

instead of providing on -site affordable housing, noting the inability to provide two separate cores 

(that are sought by Registered Providers (RPs)) , and lack of interest from R Ps for the quantum 

of affordable housing that could be provided .

3.2.29  Officers, therefore, recommend the PIL is secured through the S106 deed . This will enable the 

delivery of affordable housing in a range of tenures and unit sizes better aligned with the 

borough’s priority housing needs, including through the Council’s own development programme. 

Review mechanism 

3.2.30  LP Policy H5 states that applications following the Viability Tested Route will be subject to: 

• an Early -Stage Viability Review, to be triggered if an agreed level of progress on 

implementation is not made within two years of the permission being granted (or a period 

agreed by the borough); 

• a Late -Stage Viability Review which is triggered when 75 per cent of the units in a scheme 

are sold or let (or a period agreed by the borough). 

3.2.31  Any contribution arising from a review of viability would be capped by relevant policy 

requirements. Where a viability review demonstrates an improvement in a scheme’s viability, a 

percentage split of the increase in the scheme’s value between the develope r and the Council. 

This will be: 40% of the increase in the scheme’s value returned to the developer and 60% to 

the Council, up to the level that would be required for a policy compliant scheme; this is what 

has been agreed in this instance. 

Housing mix 

3.2.32  LP Policy H10 states that the scheme should generally consist of a range of unit sizes. To 

determine the appropriate mix of unit size s in relation to the number of bedrooms for a scheme, 

applicants and decision makers should have regard to a range of matters including the housing 

need and demand, the mix of uses in the scheme, the nature and location of the site, the range 

of tenures in the scheme, to name the few. 

3.2.33  LLP Policy H4 supports proposals which offer a range of dwelling sizes and types to meet 

current and future housing needs. All residential developments, including conversions, are 

expected to provide a mix of dwelling sizes. For market and intermediate housing, a balanced 

mix of unit sizes including family -sized accommodation should be provided. 

3.2.34  The proposal would provide 30x self -contained homes . The table below provides the breakdown 

of the proposed housing mix: ↑ To contents 

Unit type  No. of Private 

Housing 

No. Social 

Rent 

No. of Affordable 

Housing 

(Discount Market 

Rent) 

Total 

Studio  - - - -

1B/2P  11 (37 %)  - - 11 (37%) 

2B/3P  11 (33 %)  - - 11 (33%) 

2B/4P  4 (1 6%)  - - 4 (16%) 

3B/ 4P 3 (7%)  - - 3 (7%) 

3B/5P  1 (7%)  - - 1 (7%) 

TOTAL  30 (100%)  - - 30 (100%) 

3.2.35  The proposed mix of private dwellings is considered to offer a balanced mix of unit sizes and 

includes some family sized units. 

Summary 

3.2.36  Subject to securing planning obligations as listed above, the proposal meets the requirements 

of LP Policies H4, H5, H6 and LLP Policies H2 and H4. 

# Design 

3.2.37  Design -based policies include many site -specific considerations, but in general, seek to ensure 

development responds to the positive aspects of its local context, has a bulk, scale/mass, siting, 

building line and orientation which adequately preserves or e nhances the prevailing local 

character, and has a design quality which is visually interesting and well detailed. 

Refused a pplication ref: 19/04768/FUL 

3.2.38  The last planning application (ref: 19/04768/FUL) at the Site was refused (see reason for refusal 

4) because of the siting, building line, design, appearance, and materials. It was considered that 

the building would appear overly dominant in relation to the neighbouring building at 342 

Clapham Road (also known as Singer Mews) and when viewed at the junction of C lapham 

Road and Union Road. The appearance of the proposed Clapham Road façade was poor and 

not well detailed. The CGI image below shows the scale, massing, and proposed appearance of 

the refused scheme. 

Figure 6: CGI image of the refused scheme ref: 19/04768/FUL. View from the junction of 

Clapham Road and Union Road ↑ To contents 

Demolition of the existing building 

3.2.39  There is no objection to the demolition of the existing mid -century office building. The building is 

not of high architectural quality, and it does not positively contribute to the appearance of the 

Site or the wider surrounding area .

Siting and l ayout 

3.2.40  The proposed building would cover the whole Site at ground floor level .

3.2.41  The frontage on to Clapham Road would comprise the commercial floorspace serving as office ,

whilst the Union Road would comprise residential lobby, commercial bins and cycle store as 

well as a sub -station. The proposed ground floor uses especially the commercial use facing 

Clapham Road would provide an active frontage to the public realm , this is welcomed by 

officers. To ensure an active frontage with natural surveillance onto the street is retained , a

planning condition is recommended preventing adding and / or sticking anything to the glass 

such as films that might prevent views in and out from pedestrian level (see Condition 7). 

3.2.42  The Conservation and Design team reviewed the proposal and raised no concerns with the 

proposed siting and layout of the building. As such, in design terms the proposed arrangement 

is considered acceptable, and the proposal would accord with LLP Policies Q6 and Q7. 

Figure 7: Proposed Ground Floor (drawing no. 0201 , Rev E)↑ To contents 

Scale and massing 

3.2.43  Objections were raised about the height of the building and the fact that it would be higher that 

the neighbouring Singer Mews development located to the north and west as well as the 

Phoenix Public House located to the south of the Site. 

3.2.44  The Site is a corner site between Union Road and Clapham Road. Corner sites are typically 

locations suitable for distinctive buildings which are marginally taller than their neighbours. The 

proposed building would be 7 -storeys (32.11m AOD in height). The building would be taller than 

its immediate neighbour (Singer Mews) which is 6 -storeys (26.95m AOD in height). Whilst the 

proposed building would be taller, given its location on the corner plot the proposed height and 

the relationship that it would have wi th its neighbours is considered acceptable in design terms. 

The proposed illustrative elevation in Figure 8 demonstrate s that the proposal would not 

negatively impact on the character and appearance of the surrounding area. In addition, it is 

noted that there are examples of other taller building s in the surrounding area such as 340a 

Clapham Road development being 9 -storeys (39.12m AOD in height), and 330 -340 Clapham 

Road development being 6 -storeys (approx. 27.7m AOD in height), both located north of the 

Site. As such, in design terms the proposed arrangement is considered acceptable, and the 

proposal would accord with LLP Policies Q5 and Q7. 

Figure 8: Proposed illustrative elevation – view looking north (Source: Planning 

Statement) 

Detailed design 

3.2.45  The local context is characterised by brick -built buildings. The designs of the elevations would 

be split into three sections (Union Road, corner junction, and Clapham Road) . Each section 

would have a distinctive look but there would be common themes used throughout to bring the 

building together. The table below shows the design of each section and lists the proposed 

material pallet which consists of brick, metal cladding, a nd cladding tiles. ↑ To contents 

Union Road Elevation  Union Road and Clapham 

Road Junction Elevation 

Clapham Road Elevation 

3.2.46  The Conservation and Design advised that proposed material palette is locally distinctive. The 

use of b rick as the principal material is considered a positive response to the local context. 

Whilst the façade design is a little bit complicated , it is well considered and with sufficient 

attention to detail it would be acceptable. Condition s would be added requesting further detail s

to ensure that the quality of the building is high (see Condition s 21 and 2 2). 

Summary 

3.2.47  Officers are supportive of the proposal’s approach to scale, siting and composition which has 

been carefully considered , in accordance with the relevant design -based policies . Overall, it is 

considered that the proposal has overcome the design -based reason s for refusing application 

ref: 19/04768/FUL. 

# Strategic and local views 

Strategic views 

3.2.48  LP Policy HC3 states that Strategic Views include significant buildings, urban landscapes or 

riverscapes that help to define London at a strategic level. LP Policy HC4 states that 

development proposals should not harm, and should seek to make a positive co ntribution to, the 

characteristics and composition of Strategic Views and their landmark elements and preserve 

the ability of the viewer to recognise their features. LLP Policy Q25 Part A states “The council 

will resist harm to the significance of strategi c views (Panoramas, Linear Views, River Prospects 

and Townscape Views defined in the Mayor’s London View Management Framework SPG 

(2012) and listed in Annex 6) and secure improvements within them in accordance with LP 

Policy HC4.” 

3.2.49  The proposed development does not affect any Strategic Views because there are no strategic 

views that could possibly be affected due to where the Site is. 

Local views 

3.2.50  LLP Policy Q25 sets out the views of local interest, which the Council seeks to protect from 

harm. The viewing location and visual management guidance for this view are set out in the 

Draft Lambeth Views SPD (2024) which has informed the analysis below. 

3.2.51  The Site is within the designated local views north -west of Brixton Landmarks (Lambeth’s Town 

Hall’s tower and St Matthew’s church towers) and views north and north -east to the City (Policy ↑ To contents 

Q25 (b)). The proposed building would be a maximum of 3 2m in height (AOD) . The Design and 

Conservation officer have reviewed the submitted plans and documents and advised that the 

building would not be tall enough to have any impact on the local views. 

Summary 

3.2.52  The proposed development would not harm strategic or local views. The proposal would comply 

with LP Polic ies HC3 , HC4 as well as LLP P olicy Q25. 

# Heritage impact 

Approach to heritage considerations 

3.2.53  The beginning of the Agenda Pack sets out the legislative background and the national and 

borough level policy context. Reference should be made to those materials. 

3.2.54  The first step is to identify the nature and extent of any harm to the significance of any 

designated heritage assets. This will be a matter for the planning judgement of the decision -

maker, looking at the facts of the application and taking into account t he importance of the asset 

in question. Minimal harm to the value of a designated heritage asset should still be placed 

within the category of less than substantial harm. When assessing any application which may 

affect the setting of a heritage asset, the impact of cumulative change may need to be 

considered. 

3.2.55  Clear and convincing justification is required by NPPF paragraph 213 for any harm to the 

significance of a designated heritage asset. The second step is therefore to balance that harm 

against the public benefits of the scheme, applying the requirements of NPPF paragraph 215 in 

the case of less than substantial harm, or NPPF paragraph 214 in the case of substantial harm 

(or total loss of significance). 

3.2.56  A public benefit can be anything that delivers economic, social or environmental objectives, 

which are the three overarching objectives of the planning system as set out in the NPPF. The 

Planning Practice Guidance advises that “ public benefits should flow from the proposed 

development. They should be of a nature or scale to be of benefit to the public at large and not 

just be a private benefit. However, benefits do not always have to be visible or accessible to the 

public in orde r to be genuine public benef its, for example, works to a listed private dwelling 

which secure its future as a designated heritage asset could be a public benefit ”. The degree of 

weight to attach to any particular public benefit is a matter for the decision -maker. 

3.2.57  Public benefits can include heritage benefits. If heritage harm and heritage benefit arise in 

relation to the same asset, the decision -maker should consider whether the benefit would 

prevent the harm from arising and, if it would, avoid double -counting the heritage benefit when 

identifying the public benefits. If there is harm to one asset but a heritage benefit to a different 

asset, the heritage benefit accruing to one should not be treated as meaning that there is no 

heritage harm to the other. 

3.2.58  Importantly, the balancing exercises required by NPPF paragraph 214 and 215 are not simple 

unweighted exercises in which the decision -maker is free to give heritage harm whatever 

degree of weight they wish. In Barnwell Manor the Court of Appeal identified that the decision -

maker needed to give “considerable importance and weight” to any finding of likely harm to a 

listed building or its setting in order properly to perform the section 66 duty. Sections 66 and 72 

of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conserv ation Areas) Act 1990 amount to a statutory 

presumption against development that would harm the significance of a listed building or a ↑ To contents 

conservation area. The presumption can be outweighed, but only if there are material 

considerations (which will include a proposal’s public benefits) that are strong enough to do so. 

3.2.59  The decision -maker needs to ensure that they give considerable importance and weight to harm 

to the significance of a designated heritage asset, and ensure that the more important the asset, 

the more the weight that is given to the harm in the balancing ex ercise. Where the significance 

of more than one designated heritage asset would be harmed by the proposed development, 

the decision -maker needs to account for each individual harm and identify, overall, the resulting 

degree of less than substantial harm or substantial harm. 

3.2.60  The assessment of the nature and extent of harm to the significance of a non -designated 

heritage asset is a matter for the planning judgement of the decision -maker, looking at the facts 

of the application and considering the importance of the asset in ques tion. NPPF paragraph 216 

does not prescribe how the balanced judgement required should be undertaken, or what weight 

should be given to any particular matter. 

Conservation area s

3.2.61  There are two conservation areas close to the Site ; the C lapham Road Conservation Area 

approximately 30 metres to the south -east , and the Sibella Road Conservation Area 

approximately 40 metres to the south -west of the Site .

3.2.62  The Design and Conservation officer ha s reviewed the submitted plans and documents and 

advised that the proposal would not have an adverse impact on the nearby conservation areas. 

The proposed development would be replacing a building that does not positively contribute to 

the character and appearance of the wider area. The replacement building would be of higher 

architectural quality. Furthermore, it is noted that the Site is in an area where some similar scale 

development has been permitted and built (Sin ger Mews ref: 06/03159/FUL and 340a Clapham 

Road 16/06668/FUL ). As such , the proposal would comply with the NPPF , LP Policy HC1, and 

LLP Policy Q22. 

Listed building s

3.2.63  There are no statutory listed building s on and around the Site that would be affected by the 

proposals .

Non -designed heritage assets 

Locally listed buildings 

3.2.64  The Phoenix Public House located at 348 Clapham Road (to the south of the Site) is a non -

designated heritage asset on the Local Heritage List . The description read: Corner pub in two 

parts. LHS a regency house and rhs a grander, purpose -built mid -19th Century pub which is 

ornamented by intricate stucco detailing to both Clapham Road and the Union Road flank. The 

pub itself occupies a single storey addition and has th e streamlined characteristics of an inter -

war - or post -war rebuild. Sash windows to upper floors. 

3.2.65  The public house was added to the Local Heritage L ist on 18.07.2016 for its architecture, 

history, and townscape impact. The Design and Conservation officer have reviewed the 

submitted plans and documents and advised that the proposal would not have an adverse 

impact on the nearby locally listed building. As such, the proposed development would comply 

with the NPP F, LP Policy HC1, and LLP Policy Q23. 

Archaeological Priority Area 

3.2.66  The Site is located within an Archaeological Priority Area that in this case represents a corridor 

along the line of a former Roman road. The submitted archaeological desk -based assessment ↑ To contents 

report (prepared by L -P Archaeology/MoLA, dated August 2019 and revised September 2023) 

recommended a watching brief due to Clapham Road being on the line of a former Roman road. 

3.2.67  However, Historic England, Greater London Archaeology Advisory Service (GLASS), reviewed 

the submitted document and advised that when combining the round disturbance associated 

with the construction of the current building with that earlier dwelling that fronted Un ion Road, 

the overall impact, when mapped against the footprint of the proposed development, the area of 

potential archaeological interest will be negligible. Furthermore, an excavation of the adjacent 

site in 2003 produced no Roman period archaeology. The refore, no further assessment or 

conditions are necessary, the proposal would comply with the NPPF, LP Policy HC1 - Part D ,

and LLP Policy Q23 - Part D. 

Summary 

3.2.68  In officers’ assessment no harm to the significance of any heritage assets has been identified, 

meaning that the proposal complies with the heritage policies of the development plan .

# Sustainable design and construction 

3.2.69  Strategic and local policies require development to demonstrate how it would minimise its 

impact on the environment, including through its construction and end -use. 

Refused a pplication ref: 19/04768/FUL 

3.2.70  The last planning application (ref: 19/04768/FUL) at this Site was refused (see reason for 

refusal 8) because the scheme failed to demonstrate that sustainable design standards are 

integral to the design, construction and operation of the development. 

Energy strategy 

3.2.71  LP Policy SI 2 states that major developments should be net -zero carbon. This means reducing 

greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the following energy hierarchy: 

• Be Lean : use less energy and manage demand during operation 

• Be Clean : exploit local energy resources (such as secondary heat) and supply energy 

efficiently and cleanly. 

• Be Green : maximise opportunities for renewable energy by producing, storing and using 

renewable energy on -site. 

• Be Seen : monitor, verify and report on energy performance. 

3.2.72  The application is supported by the Energy Statement (prepared by Sustain Quality Ltd, number 

001121, version 6.0 , dated 17/ 12/ 2025 ) which indicates that the proposed development will 

achieve a 79% residential reduction and a 88 % non -residential reduction for on -site 

improvement over baseline emissions for regulated CO2 emissions. The total emissions 

reductions against base line emissions is 79%. The statement was reviewed by the Council’s 

independent consultant Blewburton who advised officers on whether the submitted document 

has been correctly prepared. 

Be Lean 

3.2.73  The Be Lean Stage includes energy efficiency measures including energy efficient building 

fabric, air tightness, mechanical ventilation with heat recovery, and energy efficient lighting with 

sensor controls in communal areas. For non -residential use these upgrades are predicted to 

provide a 6% CO2 reduction site -wide compared to the Part L 2021 Baseline. For residential 

use these upgrades are predicted to provide a 13 % CO2 reduction site -wide compared to the 

Part L 2021 Baseline. The non -residential element meets the policy target, whilst the residential ↑ To contents 

element falls 1% short of the policy target. This is considered acceptable, however, noting the 

slight shortfall and given the overall carbon savings comfortably surpass the policy target. 

Be Clean 

3.2.74  The Be Clean Stage does not include any savings. The re are no existing or planned heating or 

cooling networks near the Site. CHP and communal systems have been found unsuitable. 

Allowance has been made for the installation of a heat exchanger to connect to a future heat 

network, should one become available. This would be secured through the S 106 deed .

Be Green 

3.2.75  The Be Green Stage includes air and water source heat pumps. The anticipated reduction for 

residential  use is 69 % and a non -residential reduction is 35% .

Be Seen 

3.2.76  The Be Seen Stage requires the development to monitor and report to the GLA on the energy 

performance of the development as -built and in the in -use phase for every year following 

occupation of the development for at least the first five years.  This would be secured through a

condition .

Zero Carbon saving 

3.2.77  The policy requires a minimum 35% on -site reduction in emissions for major developments 

against Part L of the Building Regulations . The proposal would see a total reduction of 79% as 

reported in the submitted energy strategy. In order to achieve the ‘zero carbon’ requirement, the 

remaining regulated carbon dioxide are proposed to be off -set through a cash in lieu 

contribution to be ring fenced to secure delivery of carbon dioxide savings elsewhere. This 

would be secured within a S106 deed . This results in a n estimated payment of £ 14,905 . As -built 

calculations will be required to confirm the final payment amount required. This would be 

secured within a S106 deed and by Condition 3 2.

3.2.78  In respect of unregulated emissions, these would be minimised through energy efficiency 

measures, such as energy efficient appliances and lighting. 

Whole Life -Cycle Carbon Assessment 

3.2.79  LP Policy SI 2 Part F requires development proposals that are referrable to the Mayor to 

calculate whole -life cycle carbon emissions through a nationally recognised Whole Life -Cycle 

Carbon Assessment (WLCA) and demonstrate actions taken to reduce life -cycl e carbon 

emissions. Whilst the application is not referrable to the Mayor, a WLCA has been provided. 

3.2.80  The submitted WLCA demonstrates that the proposed building is expected to generate lower 

emissions than the existing building, and emissions are expected to be below benchmarks. The 

Council’s Sustainability consultant recommended a planning condition which has been added 

(see Condition 36). 

Waste and the circular economy 

Circular economy 

3.2.81  LP Policy SI 7 requires all developments referable to the Mayor of London to provide a Circular 

Economy Statement (CES). LP Policy D3 requires development proposals to integrate circular 

economy principles as part of the design process. LLP Policy EN7 supp orts the circular 

economy principles and the approach to driving waste management up the waste hierarchy in 

accordance with national and regional policy and targets, and in particular, the efficient use of ↑ To contents 

resources, the reuse of materials and resources, composting, and the recovery of energy from 

materials. 

3.2.82  The application does not require referral to the Mayor, and therefore, a CES is not required by 

policy. Nevertheless, the applicant prepared CES . This is included in the submitted 

Sustainability Statement. The circular economy principles required by policy would be adopted. 

It is recommended that a condition (Condition 3 7) is added requesting a post -completion report 

setting out the predicted and actual performance against all numerical targets in the approved 

circular economy statemen t. Subject to this the proposal would comply with the relevant 

policies. 

Demolition and construction waste 

3.2.83  LP Policy SI 7 and LLP Policy EN7 require that at least 95 per cent of construction and 

demolition waste should be reused, recycled or recovered and at least 95 per cent of excavation 

waste should be put to beneficial use. Disposal of construction, demolit ion and excavation 

(CD&E) waste in landfill should only take place where it has been demonstrated that alternative, 

more sustainable fates are not feasible. Condition s 33 and 3 4 is recommended to secure details 

of how the proposal will comply with this req uirement. 

Operational phase 

3.2.84  For waste generated by the ongoing use of the development, LP Policy SI 7 sets a recycling 

target of 65 per cent. The submitted sustainability statement includes a section on operational 

waste strategy outlining the number of bins that would be provided for each use. The Council ’s 

waste team (SERCO) reviewed the proposal and raised no concerns. Whilst this is the case, it 

is recommended that a condition is added that confirms that they applicant would meet the 

targets mentioned in the planning policy (see C ondition 42). 

Overheating mitigation 

3.2.85  LP Policy SI 4 states that major development proposals should demonstrate how they will 

reduce the potential for internal overheating and reliance on air conditioning systems in 

accordance with a hierarchy that prioritises passive measures overactive measures. LLP Policy 

EN4 requires development to be resilient to climate change by including appropriate climate 

change adaptation measures. 

3.2.86  A residential and non -residential overheating assessment has been carried out. This shows an 

acceptable overheating strategy . The Council’s Sustainability consultant recommended a 

planning condition which has been added to ensure this strategy is delivered (see Condition 

35). 

Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology (BREEAM) 

3.2.87  LLP Policy EN4 requires all non -residential development to meet at least BREEAM ‘Excellent’. 

The application is supported by a BREEAM Statement and Modular Building document. 

3.2.88  The application is supported by the Sustainability Statement (prepared by Sustain Quality) 

commits to achieving an Excellent BREEAM Rating for the proposed development, noting that it 

could achieve a BREEAM score of approximately 75.62% (whereby the BREEAM ‘Excellent’ 

target score is 70 %). The assessment is carried out for the proposed development to shell and 

core. A condition (Condition 3 8) is therefore included requiring a minimum final certificated 

rating of Excellent to be achieved. Subject to this the proposed development would comply with 

the relevant policies. ↑ To contents 

Water efficiency 

3.2.89  LP Policy SI 5 states that by using planning conditions, developments should minimise the use 

of mains water. LLP Policy EN6 seeks to minimise water consumption and incorporate water re -

use systems where practical. 

3.2.90  The application is supported by the Sustainability Statement included information about water 

use. Blewburton reviewed by the submission on behalf of the Council, confirming that: 

• Water efficiency measures: BREEAM credits are targeted for water monitori ng 

(Wat02), water leak detection and flow control devices (Wat03) and water efficient 

equipment (Wat04) is target for the whole development. 

• Non -residential (target 12.5%): BREEAM Wat01 credits are targeted for a 40% .

• Residential internal water use : Details of proposed flow rates and capacities to 

achieve a water use of 105l/person/day or less have been provided. 

3.2.91  These measures will be secured by condition (Condition s 25, 26 and 30), ensuring compliance 

with the relevant policies. 

Summary 

3.2.92  The proposed development incorporates a wide range of sustainable design measures, aligned 

with the energy hierarchy, climate resilience principles, and environmental objectives of 

national, regional, and local policy. The reduction s in regulated carbon emissions would be 

achieved with passive design, air source heat pumps, and roof mounted PV panels, and it 

would be futureproofed for connection to a district hear network . Subject to appropriate 

conditions and planning obligations, the scheme is considered to make a significant and positive 

contribution to the borough’s climate action and net zero objectives .

# Amenity impact 

3.2.93  LLP Policy Q2 requires development to protect the amenity of existing/future occupants, 

neighbours and the visual amenity of the community of a whole. 

Daylight, sunlight, and overshadowing 

3.2.94  The Planning Practice Guidance (PPG) includes guidance on making effective use of land, 

including planning for higher density development. The PPG states: “ Where a planning 

application is submitted, local planning authorities will need to consider whether the proposed 

development would have an unreasonable impact on the daylight and sunlight levels enjoyed by 

neighbouring occupiers ”. 

3.2.95  The PPG also acknowledges that wider planning considerations are relevant in considering 

appropriate levels of daylight and sunlight. The guidance notes that all developments should 

maintain acceptable living standards. However, the guidance also notes that assess ing what 

are appropriate levels of sunlight and daylight will depend to some extent on the context of the 

development as well as its detailed design. Lower daylight and sunlight levels at some windows 

may be unavoidable if new developments are to b e in keeping with the general form of their 

surroundings. In such situations good design will be necessary to help make the best use of the 

site and maintain acceptable living standards. 

3.2.96  In this respect, paragraph 130(c) of the NPPF states: “local planning authorities should refuse 

applications which they consider fail to make efficient use of land, taking into account the 

policies in this Framework. In this context, when considering applications for housing, authorities ↑ To contents 

should take a flexible approach in applying policies or guidance relating to daylight and sunlight, 

where they would otherwise inhibit making efficient use of a site (as long as the resulting 

scheme would provide acceptable living standards).” 

3.2.97  LLP Policy Q2 states that development will be supported if: (iv) it would not have an 

unacceptable impact on levels of daylight and sunlight on the host building or adjoining property 

including their gardens or outdoor spaces. Paragraph 10.2 of the LLP sta tes “ Sustainable 

development should protect the amenity of existing/future occupants, neighbours and the visual 

amenity of the community as a whole. ”

3.2.98  The beginning of the Agenda Pack a contains broad contextual overview of the assessment 

framework within which sunlight and daylight studies are undertaken and the application of the 

Building Research Establishment (‘BRE’) Guidelines. This includes an expl anation of the key 

terms and targets contained within the BRE Guidelines. The following assessment has been 

made in the context of this information. 

3.2.99  The submitted Daylight and Sunlight Report ( prepared by Right of Light Consulting, dated 

15.12.2023 ), provides an assessment of the daylight and sunlight impacts on neighbouring 

properties and overshadowing impacts on neighbouring open space areas. The Report has 

been reviewed by Arup , a daylight / sunlight consultant appointed by the Council, whose 

comments are incorporated into this section of the PAC report 

3.2.100  The assessment includes both residential and commercial properties nearby the ite, including 

the following: 

• 342 to 344 Clapham Road 

• 4-7 Singer Mews 

• 1 Union Road 

• 2 Union Road 

• 3 Union Road 

• 5 Union Road 

• 7 Union Road 

• Phoenix Public House (348 Clapham Road) 

• 1-35 Rusper Court 

3.2.101  Several objection s were received raised concerns with the loss of daylight and sunlight. 

Daylight impacts 

Singer Mews development 

342 -344 Cl apham Road 

3.2.102  This neighbouring site is located north of the Site. The building is 7-storeys in height (including 

basement) . 45 windows were tested, and they all comply with BRE Guideline s for the VSC and 

DD .

4-7 Singer Mews 

3.2.103  This neighbouring site is located north -east of the Site. The building is 6-storeys in height 

(including basement) .

3.2.104  With regard to VSC, 69 out of 77 windows comply with BRE Guideline s. The 8 windows that fail 

serve living/dining/kitchen rooms. Those windows are located underneath balcony overhang s.

The BRE guide acknowledges that where a window has an overhang or projecting wings on one ↑ To contents 

or both sides of it, a larger relative reduction in VSC may be unavoidable. As such in this 

instance, the lack of compliance with BRE is acceptable. 

3.2.105  With regard to DD, 71 out of 77 windows comply with BRE Guideline. 6 windows that would be 

affected are: 

• 4 are living/dining/kitchen rooms that have a depth of 5m or more. The BRE guide 

explains that in such scenarios a greater movement of the no skyline is unavoidable 

• 2 are bedrooms BRE guide explains that daylight in bedrooms is less important than in 

other habitable rooms such as kitchens and living rooms 

2 Union Road 

3.2.106  This neighbouring site is located east of the Site. The building is 5 -storeys in height (including 

basement). 

3.2.107  56 out of 57 windows were tested comply with BRE Guideline for VSC. 1 window that fails 

serv es a bedroom and it located underneath a balcony overhang. As mentioned before under 

paragraph 4.2. 104 , t he BRE guide acknowledges that where a window has an overhang or 

projecting wings on one or both sides of it, a larger relative reduction in VSC may be 

unavoidable. As such in this instance, the lack of compliance with BRE is acceptable .

3.2.108  57 windows were tested , and they all comply with BRE Guideline s for DD .

Neighbouring properties on Union Road 

Phoenix Public House (348 Clapham Road) 

3.2.109  This neighbouring site is located east of the Site on the opposite side of Union Road . The 

building is 3-storeys in height . 45 windows were tested, and they all comply with BRE 

Guideline s for VSC and DD. 

1 Union Road 

3.2.110  This neighbouring site is located east of the Site on the opposite side of Union Road. The 

building on site is 3 -storeys in height. 7 windows were tested, and they all comply with BRE 

Guideline for VSC and DD. 

3 Union Road 

3.2.111  This neighbouring site is located east of the Site on the opposite side of Union Road. The 

building is 4 -storeys in height. 11 windows were tested, and they all comply with BRE 

Guideline s for VSC and DD. 

5 Union Road 

3.2.112  This neighbouring site is located east of the Site on the opposite side of Union Road. The 

building is 4 -storeys in height. 19 windows were tested, and they all comply with BRE Guideline 

for the VSC and DD. 

7 Union Road 

3.2.113  This neighbouring site is located east of the Site on the opposite side of Union Road. The 

building is 4 -storeys in height. 4 windows were tested, and they all comply with BRE Guideline s

for VSC and DD. 

Neighbouring properties on the opposite side of Clapham Road ↑ To contents 

1-35 Rusper Court 

3.2.114  This neighbouring site is located west of the Site on the opposite side of Clapham Road . The 

building is 5 -storeys in height (including basement). 28 windows were tested, and they all 

comply with BRE Guideline s for VSC and DD. 

Sunlight impacts 

3.2.115  Except for 2 windows at 4 to 7 Singer Mews and 1 window at 2 Union Road, all main living room 

windows satisfy the BRE Guidelines sunlight criteria, both annually and during the winter 

months. It is noted that t he BRE guide states that the alternative target setting methodologies 

can also be applied when assessing annual probable sunlight hours. The windows at 4 to 7 

Singer Mews and 2 Union Road surpass their alternative Annual Probable Sunlight Hours 

targets. The proposed development therefore has an acceptable impact on sunlight received at 

neighbouring properties .

Overshadowing 

3.2.116  The assessment shows that the existing sunlight availability is already lo w for development at 4, 

5 and 2 Union Road. The proposed development would reduce it to less than 0.8 times its 

former value. Since the level of overshadowing is relatively small in absolute area terms , the 

development would not have a harmful effect on these amenity areas. 

3.2.117  The sunlight availability to garden s 1 at 342 to 344 Clapham Road would also be reduced to 

less than 0.8 times its former value after the development. It is note d that this property benefits 

from a communal amenity space at fifth floor level which exceeds the BRE overshadowing 

recommendation. As all occupants at 342 to 344 will continue to have access to a well sunlit 

space, the overshadowing impact at this propert y can be considered acceptable. 

Summary on d aylight and sunlight impacts 

3.2.118  On balance, while there are some reported failures against BRE Guidelines target criteria , this 

must be weighed against the broader urban -design principles and regeneration benefits of the 

proposal. The proposal responds to the Site's context and capacity for growth, as well as the 

notable public benefits arising from the development, which are considered further in the 

planning balance and conclusion of the report. In light of this, o fficers consider the i mpacts of 

the development on the receipt of daylight and sunlight to surrounding properties acceptable 

and in accordance with LLP Policy Q2. 

Outlook and privacy 

3.2.119  LLP Policy Q2 states that development proposals will be supported if: “(iii) adequate outlooks 

are provided avoiding wherever possible any undue sense of enclosure or unacceptable levels 

of overlooking (or perceived overlooking)”. 

3.2.120  An objection was received raising concerns with the overlooking and loss of privacy to 

properties to the south of the Sit e. It is noted that t he planning system cannot protect specific 

views from private properties, but it can consider whether a proposed development is intrusive 

or overbearing to the outlook of a property, due to the massing and proximity of a proposal, and 

whether this would ca use demonstrable harm to the amenity of that property 

3.2.121  The distance between the proposed development and properties within the Singer Mews 

development would be vary between 12m to 23m. With regard to the shorter distance, there 

would be some limited views available between properties at certain angles , which would be a 

similar arrangement to properties within Singer Mews itself . After careful consideration and 

assessment of the scheme it is considered that the s eparation distances would be sufficient to 

ensure there would not be any significant loss of outlook or loss of privacy through overlooking. ↑ To contents 

Figure 9: Separation distances between the proposed development and properties within 

the Singer Mews development (See Drawing 0202 Rev E for updated floorplan) 

Noise 

3.2.122  LP Policy D14 states that development proposals should avoid significant adverse noise 

impacts on health and quality of life as a result of new development. Policy Q2 of the LLP 

requires development to reduce the adverse impact of noise on neighbouring amenity to an 

acceptable level”. 

3.2.123  An objection was received raising concerns with noise and disturbance from the proposed use. 

The proposal has been reviewed by the RSS, Council’s Environmental Health consultants who 

reviewed the potential operational and construction impact s associated with noise. They 

recommend that if the application is approved, the following conditions should be included in the 

decision notice to prevent any unacceptable impact to residents and neighbours. The 

recommended conditions are as follow s:

• Submission of a Construction and Environment Management Plan 

• Submission of assessment detailing noise from building services plant and equipment 

• Submission of noise and vibration attenuation and ventilation to prevent overheating and 

maintenance 

• Restricted ho ur s of use for office 

• Submission of a Delivery and Servicing Plan 

3.2.124  The proposed development would be a cceptable in respect of noise impacts subject to these 

conditions being included (see Conditions 4, 12, 15 and 19 ). 

Light pollution 

3.2.125  The Institution of Lighting Professionals (ILP) publication ‘Guidance Notes for the Reduction of 

Obtrusive Light (GN01:2011)’ makes recommendations aimed at avoiding nuisance from 

obtrusive external lighting installations. 

> 23.21 m
> 22.98 m

# ↑ To contents 

3.2.126  The submission does not detail the proposed lighting strategy . To ensure that any potential light 

spillage w ould be minimised as to avoid significant environmental effects , it is recommended 

that a condition is attached to the planning permission (see Condition 29 ).

Summary 

3.2.127  The applicant has taken care to design a scheme to adequately separate s the building away 

from neighbouring properties to minimise amenity impacts, though in some instances there are 

appreciable reductions in daylight, however these impacts are not unacceptable in the 

circumstances, and the proposal complies with NPPF, LP Policies D6, D13 and D14 , and LLP 

Policy Q2 .

# Transport 

3.2.128  Development plan policies seek to ensure that the impacts of development on the transport 

network are fully assessed and promote sustainable modes of travel. Paragraph 115 of the 

NPPF states that “development should only be prevented or refused on highways grounds if 

there would be an unacceptable impact on highway safety, or the residual cumulative impacts 

on the road network would be severe .” 

Transport context 

3.2.129  The Site fronts Clapham Road (A3 ) which form s part of the Transport for London Road Network 

(TLRN) and for which Transport for London (TfL) is responsible . The Site also fronts Union 

Road, which is managed by the Council. 

3.2.130  The Site is located within Controlled Paring Zone (CPZ), Code S, operating Monday to Friday 

between 8:30am and 17:30pm. 

3.2.131  The Site has PTAL of 6a (on a scale of 0 to 6b, where 6b represents the greatest level of 

access to public transport services). The nearest bus stop is on the Clapham Road/Union Road 

junction 50m from the Site. The nearest underground station (Clapham North and Stockwell) is 

located 0.48km away from the Site to the south and north respectively. The Site benefits from 

the existing p edestrian and cycling facilities which cover the surrounding area. 

Access 

3.2.132  Pedestrian access to the three of the commercial units located on the ground floor level w ould 

be provided directly from the existing footway / forecourt area outside of the building; two 

accessed from Clapham Road and one accessed at the corner of the Clapham Road / Union 

Road junction. 

3.2.133  Pedestrian access to the residential lobby, which provides access to the residential units, is 

provided via a gated entrance lane from Union Road at the rear of the building. 

3.2.134  There would be no vehicular access to the Site. The existing access off the Union Road would 

be removed and full height kerb re -instated. This would be secured through a S278 highways 

agreement , through the S106 deed .

Healthy Routes 

3.2.135  LP Policy T2 sets out a requirement to promote the Mayor’s Healthy Streets Approach which is 

a system of policies and strategies to deliver a healthier, more inclusive city where people 

choose to walk, cycle, and use public transport. ↑ To contents 

3.2.136  The last planning application at the Site (ref: 19/04768/FUL) was refused (see reason for refusal 

9) because of the potential impact s the development could have on parking pressure due to the 

absence of healthy routes improvement, travel plan, cycle hire membership, car club 

membership and car permit restrictions .

3.2.137  Clapham Road is on a Healthy Routes Network . The Healthy Routes Programme Manager was 

consulted on this application and advised that the proposed development should pay a financial 

contribution of £25,000 for design development work on Slade Green Healthy Neighbourhood. 

The applicant has agreed to this, the contribution w ould be secured through a S106 deed . The 

proposal would comply with LP Policy T2. 

Trip generation 

3.2.138  The proposed development is expected to generate 42 x two -way trips by active travel modes 

per day, 215 x two -way trips by public transport modes per day and 13 x servicing trips per day. 

This is additional 15 x two -way vehicle trips per day in the AM peak, 11 x in the PM peak and 

117 x two -way people trips across the whole day when compared to the existing use . Most of the 

new trips would be on foot reflecting the central and highly accessible location of the Site and 

are not expected to have a detrimental impact on the local transport network. Overall, t he trip 

generation associated with the proposal is not considered to have significant implications on 

local highway and footway. The p ublic transport network w ould be able to absorb any net 

increase given the minor increase in trips from the development .

Car parking and car club 

Car parking 

3.2.139  LP Policy T6 is concerned with car parking and requires that car parking is restricted in line with 

existing and future public transport accessibility and connectivity. Car -free development should 

be the starting point for all development proposals in places that are (or are planned to be) well -

connected by public transport. Car -free development should provide appropriate disabled 

persons car parking. Where parking is provided, a Parking Design and Management Plan 

should be submitted alongside all applicati ons which include car parking provision LLP Policy 

T6 states that development should avoid reliance on the public highway to meet the parking 

requirements of development. 

3.2.140  The proposed development would be car free with no parking on -site. Should permission be 

granted, it is recommended that the development be secured as car free through a S106 deed 

to ensure compliance with Policy T6 of the LP and LLP . This will actively promote the use of 

walking, cycling or public transport as the preferred travel option. 

Blue Badge provision 

3.2.141  With regard to Blue Badge provision, Policy T6.1 of the LP requires that 3% of residential units 

should have access to Blue Badge parking from the outset, with an additional 7% to be 

deliverable through a Parking Design and Management Plan, to be provided if demand exceeds 

3%. Based on this , the proposed development is required to provide 1x Blue Badge space from 

the outset and additional 2x spaces being provided if required. Furthermore, 1x Blue Badge 

space is required for the commercial use. 

3.2.142  During the determination of the application Transport Planning agreed to off -site provision of 2x

Blue Badge parking spaces approximately 90m from the development on Union Road. This was 

considered acceptable because of the site constraints, design, and viability of the development. 

The chosen location is where Union Road widens and allows for opportunities for safe parking. 

The route to those spaces is flat via a footway of approximately 3m wide which crosses only two 

access points with appropriate dropped kerb provision in place. This would be secured via a ↑ To contents 

fina ncial contribution of £40,000.00 through the S106 deed , including provision for Electric 

Vehicle (EV) charging. Th e management plan would also be secured through the S106 deed .

Car Club membership 

3.2.143  Policy T6 of the LLP states that car club membership for all residents should be provided for a 

minimum of three years to further reduce on -street parking demand. 

3.2.144  In line with the above, car club membership would be secured for a minimum of three years ,

through the S106 deed .

Cycle parking 

3.2.145  LP Policy T5 states that development proposals should help remove barriers to cycling and 

create a healthy environment in which people choose to cycle. This will be achieved through the 

provision of appropriate levels of cycle parking, which should be fit for purpose, secure and well -

located. Developments should provide cycle parking at least in accordance with the minimum 

standards set out in Table 10.2 and Figure 10.2 and should be designed and laid out in 

accordance with the London Cycling Design Standar ds (LCDS). LLP Policy T3 supports the 

aims and objectives of the LP. 

3.2.146  The proposed development w ould provide separate residential and commercial bike stores on 

the ground floor of the development. The residential cycle store would be accessed from Union 

Road , and the commercial cycle store would be accessed from Clapham Road. The cycle 

parking provision would consist of: 

Cycle parking minimum policy requirements vs provision: Summary 

table 

Land use  Number of 

homes /

floorspace 

Long stay spaces  Short stay spaces 

Requirement  Provision  Requirement  Provision 

Residential  30 x homes: 

• 11x – 2P/1 

and 

• 19x all 

other 

55 

• (1 space per 

studio or 

1P/1B 

• 1.5 spaces 

2P/1B 

• 2 spaces per 

all other 

dwellings) 

55  1 ( 1 space per 

40 bedrooms )

3

Office  259 sqm  4 (1 per 75sqm)  7 1 (f irst 

5,000sqm: 1 

space per 500 

sqm )

1

Total  - 59  62  2 4

3.2.147  The proposed development would provide the minimum LP and LLP policy level for long -stay 

and short -stay cycle parking spaces , ensuring that 5% of spaces are for adapted / larger cycles 

and approximately 25% spaces are Sheffield stands. The proposed layout and stand types have 

been sufficiently demonstrated on the submitted drawings. The proposal is considered to 

comply with the LCD S. Nevertheless, should planning permission be granted it is recommended ↑ To contents 

that a planning condition is added ensuring that all cycle parking is provided prior to occupation 

(see Condition 45). 

Cycle hire 

3.2.148  In line with LLP Policy T3, Part H, states that a minimum of three years free membership of the 

Cycle Hire schemes for all residents regardless of tenure, should be made available in new 

residential developments. Uptake of cycle hire business accounts should be encouraged for 

occupiers of commercial developments through the travel plan process. 

3.2.149  In line with the above, cycle hire membership would be secured through the S106 deed .

Travel plan 

3.2.150  LP Policy T1 requires a submission of Travel Plan which is an established tool to manage travel 

behaviour and deliver the strategic mode shift targ et for 80 per cent of all trips to be made by 

public transport, walking and cycling by 2041. 

3.2.151  A framework Travel Plan (TP) including an Action Plan was submitted with the application. 

Should permission be granted, a final TP would be secured by Condition 41 and the travel plan 

monitoring fee secured through the S 106 deed .

Deliveries and servicing 

3.2.152  LP Policy T7, Part G, states that developments should facilitate s afe, clean, and efficient 

deliveries and servicing. Provision of adequate space for servicing, storage and deliveries 

should be made off -street, with on -street loading bays only used where this is not possible .

3.2.153  The submitted outline Delivery and Servicing Management Plan (prepared by Markides 

Associate s, dates 18 January 2024, revision B) estimated that the development would generate 

approximately 13x two -way delivery and servicing trips per day, of which approximately 3x 

would be Other Goods Vehicle (OGV) and the remaining are Larger Goods Vehicle (LGV). No 

trips are expected to occur in the AM and PM peaks respectively. It is proposed that deliveries 

and servicing take place from the existing delivery bays locat ed along Union Road and Clapham 

Road . It is recommended that a f inal Delivery and S ervicing Management Plan is secured by 

condition (see Condition 40). The proposal complies with LP Policy T7 and LLP Policy T7 

subject to this condition .

Construction management 

3.2.154  LP Policy T7 , Part E, requires planning applications to be accompanied by a Construction 

Management Plan, demonstrating arrangements for construction traffic and how environmental, 

traffic and amenity impacts would be minimised. 

3.2.155  The submitted Framework Construction Traffic Management Plan (prepared by Markides 

Associates, dated 18.01.2024, reference 23151 - MA -XX -XX -RP -D-CTMP01, revision C) was 

reviewed by the Council’s transport team and TfL. The final Construction Logistics Plan and 

Construction and Environmental Management Plan would be secured by planning condition and 

TfL w ould be consulted (see Condition s 1 1 and 12). 

Summary 

3.2.156  The proposal does not have an unacceptable impact on the local or wider transport network and 

would promote sustainable modes of travel, subject to conditions and S106 obligations set out 

above. ↑ To contents 

# Standard of accommodation 

3.2.157  Development plan policies require new residential development to be of a high -quality 

design. LP Policy D6 requires new residential development to meet minimum size requirements 

and be provided with sufficient daylight and sunlight. LLP Policy H5 explains that new 

residential development will be expected to provide dual -aspect accommodation, unless 

exceptional circumstances are demonstrated, and meet the requirements for accessible housing 

as set out in LP Policy D7. 

3.2.158  The last planning application (ref: 19/04768/FUL) at the Site was refused (see reason for refusal 

3) because the scheme failed to offer sufficient gross internal area, bedroom, buil t-in storage ,

and there was an under provision of private amenity space. 

Size, layout and access 

3.2.159  LP Policy D6 and Table 3.1 sets out housing quality standards. Quantitative metrics include the 

setting the minimum size of dwellings, rooms, and outdoor spaces. Qualitatively, the policy 

seeks to maximise dual aspect and naturally lit layouts, make tenures imperceptible from each 

other, and ensure robust maintenance and management strategies are in place. 

3.2.160  LLP Policy H5 explains that new residential development will be expected to provide dual -

aspect accommodation, unless exceptional circumstances are demonstrated, and meet the 

requirements for accessible housing as set out in LP Policy D7. 

3.2.161  The submitted accommodation schedule shows that all the proposed dwellings would meet or 

exceed standards in terms of overall unit sizes, bedroom size and built -in storage. Ceiling 

heights are proposed to be 2.5m, which matches the minimum height. Each unit would be 

served by at least two lifts and have two fire escape cores. The proposed development would 

comply with LP Policy D6 and LLP Policy H5. 

3.2.162  Paragraph 4.1.2 of the Mayor ’s Housing Design Standards (HDS) London Plan Guidance (LPG) 

mentions that ‘consideration should be given to the internal layout of homes, including vertical 

stacking, to reduce noise impacts (for example, between living rooms and bedrooms). ’

3.2.163  The application was reviewed by RSS, who advised that there appears to be some adverse 

stacking with a bedroom under a living room on the 3rd and 4th floor. On 12.08.2024, a revised 

set of plans was submitted that improved the stacking between flats on different floor levels. 

There remains one flat with a bedroom under a living room on the 3rd and 4th floor. The 

applicant ’s architect has advised that unfortunately if they were to change the layout for A4.04 

this would result in a loss of a 3 -bedroom flat du e to space constraints. It is noted that noise 

is mitigate d by having the living above instead of the kitchen. Given that there is only one flat 

with sightly compromised layout the proposal is considered acceptable. 

Daylight and sunlight (within the development) 

3.2.164  LP Policy D6 And the HDS LPG emphasi ses the importance of natural light for residential 

quality. While acknowledging the value of BRE guidelines for assessing daylight and sunlight, 

the policy encourages a flexible approach, particularly in higher -density area . This flexibility 

should consider local circumstances, housing capacity, and the evolving character of the area. 

3.2.165  The submitted Daylight and Sunlight Report for within development (prepared by Right of Light 

Consulting, dated 15.12.2023) assesses whether the proposed homes would provide its future 

occupiers with adequate levels of natural light. The report has been reviewed by Arup & 

Partners Ltd (Arup), an independent daylight / sunlight consultant appointed by the Council. ↑ To contents 

Daylight 

3.2.166  In respect to daylight, 64 out of 83 widows tested would meet or exceed the BRE Guidelines 

daylight factor targets, which equates to 77%. Overall, a good standard of day light would be 

achieved to the proposed homes. 

Sunlight 

3.2.167  In respect to sunlight, 25 homes have a living room window which faces 90 degreed of due 

south. 22 of the 30 homes have a living room which receives a total of at least 1.5 hours of 

sunlight on 21 March. Overall, a good standard of sunlight would be achieved to the proposed 

homes .

Aspect, privacy, and outlook 

3.2.168  LLP Policy H5 explains that new residential development will be expected to provide dual -

aspect accommodation, unless exceptional circumstances are demonstrated, and meet the 

requirements for accessible housing as set out in LP Policy D7. 

3.2.169  LLP Policy Q2, Part ii, states that acceptable standards of privacy should be provided without a 

diminution of the design quality. 

3.2.170  Regarding aspect, 13 x (43.3%) homes would be single aspect, and 17 x (56.7%) homes would 

be dual aspect. Out of the 13 single aspect homes, 10x would be 1 -bedroom/2 -person and 2x 

would be 2 -bedrooms/3 -persons. Due to the floor layout of the proposed development, it is not 

possible to increase the number of dual aspect homes without compromising the size and 

deliverability of the proposal. On balance, those units are acceptable, and they would not 

warrant a reason for refusal of this planning application. 

3.2.171  Regarding privacy and outlook, the layout s and floorplan s have been designed in such a way to 

reduce overlooking between proposed homes . Where there are close relationships between the 

proposed homes mitigation measures would be employed to ensure amenity is safeguarded ;

this includes provision of balcony screens which would be secured by a planning condition (see 

Condition 21). Subject to this, the proposal would comply with LLP Policy Q2. 

Internal n oise 

3.2.172  LP Policy D14 , Part A, seeks to reduce, manage and mitigate noise to improve health and 

quality of life. LP Policy D13 refers to the Agent of Change principle and places responsibility for 

mitigating impacts from existing noise and other nuisance generating activities or uses on the 

proposed new noise sensitive development. 

3.2.173  LLP Policy Q2 (v) states that the adverse impact of noise is reduced to an acceptable level 

using attenuation, distance, screening, or layout/orientation in accordance with LP Policy D14. 

3.2.174  The submitted acoustic assessment (prepared by Sound Advice Acoustic Ltd, reference SA -

7601/2) notes that the Site is affected by road noise. The conclusion of the assessment notes 

that subject to design that proposal would achieve acceptable internal no ise levels to the 

proposed residential units. The assessment was reviewed by RSS, an independent 

environmental services consultant appointed by the Council, who agreed with the conclusion of 

the report. To ensure that future residents are protected plannin g conditions securing this detail 

is recommended (see Condition 15 and 19 ). ↑ To contents 

Amenity space 

Private and communal amenity space 

3.2.175  LP Policy D6 , Part F (9) , mentions that w here there are no higher local standards in the borough 

Development Plan Documents, a minimum of 5 sqm. of private outdoor space should be 

provided for 1 -2 person dwellings and an extra 1 sqm. should be provided for each additional 

occupant, and it must ac hieve a minimum depth and width of 1.5m. This does not count towards 

the minimum Gross Internal Area space standards required in Table 3.1 .

3.2.176  LLP Policy H5 , Part B , requires all new homes to provide 30sqm private amenity space per 

house, for all new flatted development amenity space should be provided to the following 

quantities: 10sqm per flat either as a balcony/terrace/private garden or consolidated with 

communal amenity space; and for development of 10 or more residential units a further 50sqm 

per scheme of communal amenity space. 

3.2.177  All new flats would have private balconies that either meet or exceed standards mentioned 

above. In addition, t he proposed development would provide 54 sqm of shared residential 

amenity space on 6 th floor , which would have good a ccess to sunlight . The proposed outdoor 

amenity space would be usable and would overcome the reason for refusal. The proposed 

development would comply with LP Policy D6 and LLP Policy H5. 

Children’s playspace 

3.2.178  LP Policy S4 seeks to ensure that development proposals that include housing make provisions 

for good quality accessible play provision for all ages. The Mayor’s Supplementary Planning 

Guidance Providing for Children and Young People’s Play and Recreation set s out guidance to 

assist in this process. In summary it is recommended that 10sqm of play space is provided per 

child. 

3.2.179  GLA developed a calculator that provides users with an indication of the possible number and 

age of children that could be expected to live in a new development. This calculator was used in 

assessing this planning application . The breakdown for required vs proposed play space for 

various age groups is shown on the table below: 

Age group  Child Yield (market + 

social) 

Area required (sqm)  Proposed (sqm) 

0-4 3.0  30  0

5-11  2.0  20  0

12 -15  0.5  5 0

16 -17  0.2  2 0

Total  5.7  57  0

3.2.180  As it can be seen from the table above, the development creates a requirement to provide 

57sqm of children’s play space. Given the Site constraints it was not possible to provide any 

play space on Site. In events like this the LLP Annex 9 allows applicants to provide financial 

contribution to help provide the requirement play space off -site. Using the formula provided, the 

applicant would be required to pay £5,643 for the provision of play space in the nearby area. 

This would be secured through a S106 deed . The closest park is Larkhall Park, accessed via 

Gaskell Street, approximately 400m walking distance away from the Site. 

Wheelchair accessible housing 

3.2.181  LP Policy D7 requires residential developments to provide at least 10% of dwellings that would 

meet the Building Regulation Part M4(3) “Wheelchair user dwellings requirements”, and all other 

dwellings (90%) to meet Building Regulation M4(2) “Accessible and adaptable d wellings”. LP 

Policy D5 on inclusive design requires at least one lift per core to be a fire evacuation lift. ↑ To contents 

3.2.182  Th e development would provide 3x (10%) wheelchair accessible homes located on 1 st , 2 nd , and 

3rd floors (flat numbers A1.02, A2.02, A3.02). Each home would have access to two lifts 

including a fire evacuation lift. The amount and location of the wheelchair homes is acceptable, 

and it would be secured by a planning condition (see Condition 5). Subject to this, t he proposal 

would comply with LP Policies D5 and D7. 

Summary 

3.2.183  Having considered all the above, the proposed development would provide an acceptable 

standard of accommodation for future residents through design and mitigation. The previous 

reason for refusal mentioned above ha s been overcome. The application complies with LP 

Policies D6, D7 and S4, and LLP Policies H5 and Q2. 

# Trees, l andscap ing , and e cology 

3.2.184  Strategic and local policies require development to be designed positively to integrate existing 

trees and maximise landscaping, new tree planting and biodiversity improvement opportunities. 

Where retention of trees is shown not to be possible, adequate re placement planting on or near 

the same location should be secured. 

Trees 

3.2.185  LLP Policy Q10 requires that proposals for new development consider existing trees on site and 

adjoining land. 

3.2.186  The re is 1x pear tree found south of the Site on the pavement along Union Road. This tree is 

outside of the application ownership and will be retained as part of the proposals. 

3.2.187  It is proposed that one new street tree is planted within the application site along Clapham 

Road. Subject to securing the above, the proposed development would comp ly with LLP Policy 

Q10. 

Landscaping 

3.2.188  LLP Policy Q9 supports development where landscaping is fit for purpose, responds to 

pedestrian desire lines, avoids piecemeal or leftover spaces, inc orporates sustainable drainage 

and is attractive and well -designed. 

3.2.189  The Site consist s entirely of built habitat. There is a 4-storey office building , hardstanding in the 

form of the courtyard, pavement along Union Road, Clapham Road and a small section of 

Union Road. The Site is subject to high levels of disturbance from the noise generated by traffic 

as well as artificial lighting from street lighting and lights within the courtyard. 

3.2.190  The submitted Landscape Strategy includes information about the new street tree , green roof 

with solar panels, and 9x semi -intensive green roofs. The landscape masterplan is considered 

appropriate, and it would deliver overall improvements in terms of urban greening. The detailed 

landscaping plans will be required by condition (see Condition 23). 

Urban Greening Factor (UGF) 

3.2.191  LP Polic y G1 and LLP Policy EN1 seek to secure high -quality landscaping, maximise 

opportunities for urban greening in new development, often through green roofs, tree planting, 

soft landscaping, and habitat provision. 

3.2.192  LP Policy G5 and LLP Policy EN1 (Part F) introduced a tool known as an U rban Greening 

Factor (UGF) to assess the quality and quantity of proposed urban greening in development ↑ To contents 

proposals. Major developments are required to achieve score of 0.4 for residential -led 

developments and 0.3 for commercial developments . The UGF is intended to ensure a 

consistent and measurable approach to delivering greening on -site through soft landscaping, 

green roofs, tree planting and other interventions .

3.2.193  The last planning application (ref: 19/04768/FUL) at the Site was refused (see reason for refusal 

7) because the scheme did not demonstrate sufficient greening and biodiversity gain . The 

submitted UGF calculation indicates that the proposal would target a UGF of 0.4 and any 

shortfall will result in a financial contribution secured by the S106 . Compliance with the UGF 

would be secured by condition (see Condition 23(c) ). The application therefore complies with LP 

Policies G1 and G5 , and L LP Policy EN1 and the last reason for refusal mentioned above ha s

been overcome. 

Ecology 

3.2.194  The NPPF, LLP Policy EN1 and LP Policy G6 set requirements for Biodiversity Net Gain (BNG). 

3.2.195  The Environment Act 2021 made a 10% BNG mandatory for all developments, other than 

specific exemptions, from 12 February 2024 and for small sites from 2 April 2024. 

3.2.196  Furthermore, the NPPF requires development proposals to manage impacts on biodiversity and 

aim to secure net biodiversity gain. 

3.2.197  LLP Policy EN1 and LP Policy G6 set out that development proposals should protect, enhance, 

create or manage nature conservation and biodiversity interest and promote measures to 

increase the quantity and quality of the Borough’s biodiversity and ecology, in accordance with 

the borou gh’s Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) and the Mayor’s Biodiversity Strategy. 

3.2.198  The submitted Preliminary Ecological Appraisal (prepared by Temple , number T9966, version 

2.0 ) acknowledges that the Site is largely covered by building and hardstanding resulting in a 

biodiversity value is 0.02 .

3.2.199  It is estimated that the proposed development would increase the biodiversity in excess of the 

required 10 % gain. The Biodiversity and Environmental Compliance officer has reviewed the 

appraisal and found that it is acceptable subject to securing the recommend enhancements 

through planning condition s such as installation of bird and bat boxes (see Condition 24), details 

of the biodiversity roofs that include 25 species of plants , and landscaping scheme including 

planting of new trees and management plan (s ee Condition 23). The report also suggested a

condition regarding nesting birds , as they are legal ly protect ed under the Wildlife and 

Countryside Act 1981 , the planning process does not need to provide additional protection. 

3.2.200  Compliance with the BNG requirements would be secured by way of a condition (Condition 1 6)

which will require the applicant to submit a BNG Plan prior to commencement of the approved 

development. The Plan should provide evidence of the ability of the development to deliver the 

required units of biodiversity gain on -site, or off -site through an a cceptable offsetting scheme or 

the purchase of such units from a third -party provider. 

3.2.201  In conclusion , subject to conditions, it is considered the proposed development would comply 

with the aims and objectives of LP Policy G6, LLP Policy EN1, and the NPPF , and is considered 

acceptable, having regard to the impacts on ecology and biodiversity. ↑ To contents 

Open space deficiency 

3.2.202  LP Policy G4 supports the protection, enhancement, and provision of open space, particularly in 

areas identified as deficient. Policy also encourages new developments to address local open 

space deficiencies, provide on -site public realm or green space whe re feasible, or contribute 

financially to off -site improvements. 

3.2.203  LLP Policy EN1 requires protection and enhancement of existing open spaces. New 

developments should provide publicly accessible open space where possible and a financial 

contribution towards open space improvements where on -site provision is not viable, es pecially 

in areas of open space deficiency. Lambeth Open Space Strategy (2019 –2024), identifies parts 

of the borough (particularly in the north and central areas) as suffering from quantitative and 

qualitative open space deficiencies. 

3.2.204  The last planning application (ref: 19/04768/FUL) at the Site was refused (see reason for refusal 

6) because th e Site is in an area of open space deficiency and the proposal did not provide 

open space on site or offer to provide a financial contribution towards improvements of existing 

spaces through a S106 agreement. 

3.2.205  Due to the Site constraints and viability, there are limited opportunities to provide any open 

space on Site. To address the last reason for refusal, officers negotiated a financial contribution 

of £ 9,275 to be secured for improvements to the play equipment and publicly accessible 

infrastructure, such as benches, bins, paths, soft landscaping, biodiversity, etc at Larkhall Park 

and /or Clapham Common. This would be secured through the S 106 deed . Subject to this 

contribution, t he development complies with LLP Policy EN1 , Part D(ii ) and the last reason for 

refusal mentioned above ha ve been overcome. 

# 3.3 Other planning considerations 

3.3.1  Other planning issues that are relevant to this scheme are: 

• Air quality 

• Designing out crime 

• Digital connectivity infrastructure 

• Employment and training 

• Flood risk and d rainage 

• Fire safety 

• Ground contamination 

# Air quality 

3.3.2  There is a Lambeth wide Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) plus Lambeth is also covered 

by the Non -Road Mobile Machinery (NRMM) Low Emission Zone. 

3.3.3  LP Policy SI 1 recognises the need to tackle poor air quality, protect health and meet legal 

obligations. Paragraph 9.2 of the LLP states that Lambeth will apply LP Policy SI 1 to all 

development proposals in the borough. This states that development proposals should not lead 

to further deterioration of existing poor air quality, create any new areas that exceed air quality 

limits, or delay the date at which complian ce will be achieved in areas that are currently in 

exceedance of legal limits, or create una cceptable risk of high levels of exposure to poor air 

quality. To meet these requirements, this policy requires proposals to be at least ‘Air Quality 

Neutral’. Guidance on this is provided by the GLA in their Air Quality Neutral LPG. ↑ To contents 

3.3.4  An Air Quality Assessment (prepared by Hawkins Environmental Limited, dated 23.01.2024, ref: 

H3877 – AQ – v2, version V2 ) was submitted to support the application. The assessment has 

been reviewed for its impacts on air quality during demolition, constru ction and operational 

phases by the Council’s Environmental Health consultants, RSS. 

3.3.5  To minimise the impact of the development throughout both construction and completion 

regarding air quality, conditions are proposed requiring the submission of a CEMP (see 

Condition 12) and ensuring all Non -Road Mobile Machinery (NRMM) are used in accordance 

with the GLA's 'Control of Dust and Emissions during Construction and Demolition’ SPG ( see 

Condition 43). Subject to the recommended conditions being secured on any permission, the 

proposal is considered to have an acceptable impact on air quality , in accordance with LP 

Policy SI 1. 

# Designing out crime 

3.3.6  LP Policy D11 states that development proposals should maximise building resilience and 

minimise potential physical risks, including measures to design out crime. Similarly, LLP Policy 

Q3 expects development to design out opportunistic crime, antisocial behaviour and fear of 

crime in a site -specific manner as well as address resilience to terrorism. 

3.3.7  The Metropolitan Police (Design out Crime ) reviewed the proposal and raised no concerns with 

its design provided that that pre -commencement and pre -occupation condition s (see Condition 

27) are added to ensure end -to -end compliance with Secured by Design . Subject to the 

recommended condition s being secured on a ny permission, the proposal is considered to 

comply with LP Policy D11 and LLP Policy Q3 .

# Digital connectivity infrastructure 

3.3.8  LP Policy SI 6 on digital connectivity infrastructure requires the provision of sufficient ducting for 

full fibre connectivity to all end users in new developments. 

3.3.9  The development includes provision for full fibre broadband for all users of the building . A 

condition is recommended t o ensure that fibre infrastructure is installed in accordance with the 

submitted information (see Condition 10). Subject to this condition , the development would be 

compliant with LP Policy SI 6. 

# Employment and training 

3.3.10  LLP Policy ED15 states that planning obligations should be used to secure employment 

opportunities and apprenticeships arising from major developments, so that local residents are 

given access to the right skills training so that they can take advantage of opportunities created 

by new development. This includes the submission of a site -specific construction and end use 

phase Employment and Skills Plan (ESP), which will be secured as part of the S106 deed . The 

ESP would secure the following: 

• A target of 25 per cent of all jobs created by the development (in both construction and 

net additional jobs for the first two years of the end use phase) to be secured by the 

Council for local residents; 

• Developers to engage with local schools, colleges and/or community organisations to 

promote amongst young people the range of careers available; ↑ To contents 

• The developer to make all reasonable endeavours to meet these obligations. 

3.3.11  The LLP seeks major development to provide a financial contribution to help support and train 

those sections of the Lambeth workforce that are furthest from employment to enable them to 

access newly created employment opportunities which arise from the development. Using the 

formula provide in Annex 9 of LLP the development is required to contribute £19,500 , which (in 

addition to the ESP) will be secured within the S106 deed . An ESP will also be required and 

secured in the S106 deed ; this will relate to the construction and end use phases. However, the 

end use phase would be limited to the residential use, given there would be a net reduction in 

jobs in the office parts following a reduction in office floorspace in the proposed development. 

# Flood risk and drainage 

Flood risk 

3.3.12  LP Policy SI 12 requires development proposals to minimise flood risk and address any residual 

risk. This approach is reinforced by LLP Policy EN5. 

3.3.13  The submitted Flood Risk Assessment (FRA) and Drainage Strategy (both prepared by Jomas 

Engineering Environmental, ref: P2288J1752, version 2.0, dated 08.03.2024) confirm that the 

Site is in Flood Zone 1 and an FRA is not required, however flooding from al l sources have 

been considered within this report. 

Drainage 

3.3.14  LP Policy SI 13 and LLP Polic ies EN 5 and EN6 require the use of sustainable urban drainage 

systems (‘SUDS’) unless there are overriding practical constraints. Proposals should achieve 

greenfield run -off rates and appropriately manage surface water. LP Policy SI 13 sets out a 

drainage hierarchy t hat prioritises natural over engineered drainage features. 

3.3.15  The above -mentioned report was reviewed by t he Lead Local Flood Authority (LLFA) , and they 

are satisfied with proposed strategy. Should the application be approved, it was recommended 

that a further information to be secured by planning condition s (Conditions 1 7 and 46). Subject 

to the recommended conditions the proposal is considered to have sufficiently taken account of 

flooding risk and sustainable drainage and would comply with LP Policy SI 13 , and LLP Polic ies 

EN 5 and EN6 .

# Fire safety 

3.3.16  The Town and Country Planning (Development Management Procedure and Section 62A 

Applications) (England) (Amendment) Order 2021 introduced the Gateway 1 requirement for 

relevant buildings. These include buildings over 18 metres in height or with seven or mo re 

storeys. 

3.3.17  LP Policy D12 requires that all major developments must submit a fire statement addressing the 

policy criteria, and which are prepared by qualified, independent third party. LP Policy D5 also 

require s proposals achieve high standard s of accessibility and include safe and dignified 

emergency evacuation for all users. 

3.3.18  The proposed development falls within the Gateway 1 regime. In line with the requirements of 

LP Policy D12, a Fire Statement form and Outline Fire Safety Strategy (prepared by Ashton 

Fire, issue 02, dated October 2024) has been submitted. This includes qua lification of the 

author and reviewer and addresses the following key elements: means of warning and escape, ↑ To contents 

Internal fire spread (linings), Internal fire spread (structure), External fire spread and Access and 

facilities for the fire and rescue service. 

3.3.19  The Health and Safety Executive (“HSE”), as statutory consultee under Planning Gateway One, 

has been consulted on the proposed development and their concerns and advice should be 

resolved by the applicant at Planning Gateway Two and through the Building Regulations 

process. These matters are not considered to affect land use acceptability and will be 

addressed at the appropriate regulatory stage. The proposal is therefore considered to comply 

with the requirements of the NPPF and L P Policies D5, D11 and D12 The fire statement and 

associated fire strategy w ould be secured by condition (see Condition 18). 

# Ground contamination 

3.3.20  LLP Policy EN4 states that proposals should include an assessment of existing ground 

conditions and identify appropriate remedial measures for any contaminated land prior to 

development commencing. It further states “ Where contamination exists, a remediation strategy 

should be submitted to the council for approval and implemented by a suitably qualified person 

prior to development commencing ”. 

3.3.21  No contamination desk study has been submitted . RSS advised that previous records show 

contamination conditions w ere requested during the 2019 development . To ensure that there is 

no risk of contamination, a four -part planning condition is proposed that would investigate and 

deal with any potential contamination if found (see Condition 14). 

# 3.4 Planning obligations and CIL 

# Planning obligations 

3.4.1  LLP Policy D4 and Annex 9 sets out the Council’s policy in relation to seeking planning 

obligations and the charging approaches for various types of obligation. For contributions that 

are not covered by Annex 9, the Council’s approach to calculating contri butions is guided by the 

Affordable Workspace SPD (adopted 2022). 

3.4.2  The planning obligations that are proposed are considered necessary to make the development 

acceptable in planning terms, are directly related to the development and are fairly and 

reasonably related in kind and in scale to the development. They are therefo re compliant with 

the requirements of Regulation 122 of the Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010. ↑ To contents 

3.4.3  The proposed obligations to be secured through the S106 deed are as follows: 

Planning obligation  Mitigation 

Affordable housing  • Contribution of £ 390,000.00 towards off -site a ffordable housing .

• Early and late -stage review s. 

Energy and 

sustainability 

• A carbon offset payment to be calculated and paid prior to 

occupation (currently anticipated to be £ 14,905 .00 ). 

• Future -proof connection to DHN. 

Transport  • A financial contribution of £25,000.00 towards the delivery of 

Healthy Routes Networks improvements. 

• A financial contribution of £40,000 .00 (£10,000 .00 per bay and 

£10,000 .00 for an electric vehicle charging point for each bay) 

toward s 2 off -site Blue Badge car parking spaces located on 

Union Road and Car Parking Management Plan .

• Travel Plan monitoring fee of £ 7,755 .00 

• Car parking permit -free .

• Car hire membership for all future residential occupiers 

• Cycle hire membership for all future residential occupiers 

Employment and 

Skills 

• An Employment and Skills Plan for the construction and end use 

stag es.

• A financial contribution of £19,500 towards employment and 

skills. 

Open Space  • A financial contribution of £9,275.00 towards improvements of 

publicly accessible infrastructure, such as benches, bins, paths, 

soft landscaping, biodiversity, etc at the Larkhall Park and/or 

Clapham Common. 

• A financial contribution towards improvements of biodiversity 

(currently anticipated to be £2,000 .00 as subject to final UGF 

score ). 

Play space  • A financial contribution of £5,643.00 towards improvements to 

play space within local area. 

Monitoring fee  • Monitoring fee of up to 5% of total financial obligations .

• Financial contributions shall be index -linked .

• Membership of the Considerate Con tractors Scheme. 

## NB – all financial contributions shall be index -linked 

# CIL 

3.4.4  If the application is approved and the development is implemented, a liability to pay the 

Lambeth Community Infrastructure Levy (CIL) will arise. 

3.4.5  Expenditure of the majority of a future CIL receipt will be applied towards Borough infrastructure 

needs in accordance with the applicable policies and procedures relating to expenditure 

decisions. ↑ To contents 

3.4.6  Allocation of CIL monies to particular infrastructure projects is not a matter for consideration in 

the determination of planning applications. 

3.4.7  The estimated Lambeth CIL for this development is £ 1,202,177.79 . The estimated Mayoral CIL 

for this development is £ 213 ,912 .55 . Please note that these CIL figures are indicative and will 

be confirmed if permission is granted. 

# 3.5 Equality duty and human rights 

3.5.1  The beginning of the Agenda Pack sets out the legislative background to equalities and human 

rights considerations and the approach that the decision -maker needs to take. Reference 

should be made to those materials. 

3.5.2  Officers do not consider that the proposal would have any adverse impact on people with 

protected characteristics or that the rights of individuals under the European Convention on 

Human Rights would be infringed by the proposed developmen t.

3.5.3  If Members disagree with officers’ assessment and consider that there would be an impact not 

identified by officers, or that the impact identified would be greater than as set out by officers, 

they should consider whether the weight to be given to that imp act when considering the 

planning balance is such as to mean that planning permission should be refused. 

# 3.6 Planning balance and conclusion 

# Compliance with the development plan 

3.6.1  Section 70(2) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 states that in dealing with an 

application for planning permission the local planning authority shall have regard to the 

provisions of the development plan, so far as material to the application, a po st -examination 

draft neighbourhood development plan, any local finance considerations (as defined in section 

70(4), to include CIL receipts) and to any other material considerations. Section 38(6) of the 

Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 requires p lanning decisions to be made in 

accordance with the development plan unless material considerations indicate otherwise. 

3.6.2  When assessing whether an application complies with the development plan, it is necessary to 

look at the development plan as a whole. There may be policies that pull in different directions. 

It is necessary to reach a judgement about whether, when looked a t overall, the application 

amounts to a departure from the development plan. Factors relevant to this judgement can 

include the number of policies not complied with, the extent of any non -compliance, how up to 

date various policies are, and whether a polic y relates to the principle of development or a more 

minor aspect. 

3.6.3  The Site is previously developed land in a sustainable location with excellent access to 

transport and services. The proposed development seeks to deliver a mixed -use development 

comprising 30x homes (Use Class C3) and 2 10 sqm of office floorspace (Use Class Eg(i)). This 

represents a 2.24 % contribution towards the borough’s annual housing target of 1,335 home s.

In this context, the contribution of the development to Lambeth’s housing supply is significant 

and should be afforded appropriate weight. In line with paragraph 124 of the NPPF and LP 

Policy GG2, the proposed development supports the effective use of land by making optimal 

use of this brownfield. 

3.6.4  The architectural design would be of high quality and provide an acceptable standard of 

accommodation . The proposed height is in keeping with the surrounding context, and the ↑ To contents 

development would respond positively to the local townscape. Officers consider that the 

proposal would result in no harm to the setting of non -designated listed buildings ( Phoenix 

Public House ) or the character and appearance of the Clapham Road and the Sibella Road 

Conservation Area s.

3.6.5  The design development has considered its context including neighbouring uses, to minimise 

impacts with regard to neighbouring residential amenity whilst optimising the development for 

housing delivery, addressing the borough’s acute need for housing .

3.6.6  The development would be car free, and it would provide Blue Badge parking space s

approximately 90m from the Site , which given the Site constraints is acceptable , whilst being 

capable of being serviced without harming highway safety or the functioning of the public 

transport network. There would be an acceptable quantum of bicycle parking . Environmental 

impacts, including flood risk, drainage, noise, air quality, waste and recycling, land 

contamination, basement impact and archaeology are considered to be a cceptable, subject to 

the imposition of suitably worded planning conditions. 

3.6.7  When the development plan is looked at as a whole, in officers’ assessment the proposal 

accords with it. The development plan policies identified as relevant to the assessment of the 

application are all complied with. 

# Other material considerations 

3.6.8  Officers consider that the application would offer the following public benefits which are material 

considerations weighing in favour of the application: 

Regeneration of brownfield site for housing (s ubstantial weight )

3.6.9  Paragraph 125(c) of the NPPF states that substantial weight should be given to the use of 

suitable brownfield land within settlements for homes and other identified needs and such 

proposals should be approved unless substantial harm would be caused. The pr oposal would 

make effective use of land by reusing previously developed land to deliver comprehensive 

regeneration with acceptable uses and high architectural quality. The Site is also located in a 

sustainable location that is accessible by public transpor t with good cycling and pedestrian links. 

3.6.10  The 30 homes proposed would count towards the Council’s housing target, with a 2.24 per cent 

contribution to its annual target. The Council has delivered 74 per cent of its housing target in 

the three years between 2020 -2023 and is subject to the ‘tilted balance’ within paragraph 11(d) 

of the NPPF. The provision of housing is also a stra tegic priority within the development plan. 

Accordingly , and noting paragraph 125(c) of the NPPF referenced above , the contribution these 

homes would make toward the Council’s housing target is given substantial weight 

Affordable housing (significant weight) 

3.6.11  The development would provide a contribution of £ 390,000.00 towards the delivery of off -site 

affordable housing (equating to 8% of its housing as affordable homes ). As acknowledged at 

para. 2.66 of the LLP, affordability is a major issue in Lambeth, and 1,573 additional affordable 

homes are needed per annum based on households spending 30 % of their gross income. The 

affordable homes proposed would contribute to meeting this need. 

3.6.12  As also acknowledged by the LLP, there are many households on waiting lists due to this 

shortage of affordable housing. The cost of temporary accommodation required to house these 

households has now grown to a point that it impacts on all other parts of th e Council’s budget. 

Accordingly, the affordable housing is given substantial weight. ↑ To contents 

Economic (significant weight) 

3.6.13  The NPPF states at paragraph 85: “Significant weight should be placed on the need to support 

economic growth and productivity, taking into account both local business needs and wider 

opportunities for development.” The development would provide new, flexible employment 

floorspace, as well as employment and training initiatives for local people. Substantial weight is 

given to this benefit. 

Design and public realm (moderate weight) 

3.6.14  The proposal would optimise the potential of this brownfield Site using a design -led approach. 

The siting, layout, scale, and architectural detailing are considered acceptable and consistent 

with the character and appearance of the surrounding area . The proposal would result in street 

scene improvements including a high -quality new building with an active frontage and new 

public realm .

Urban Greening, Biodiversity and Climate Resilience (moderate weight) 

3.6.15  The scheme targets an UGF score of 0.4 and any shortfall will result in a financial contribution . It 

would improve biodiversity at the Site and exceed the required 10% nett gain increase. These 

measures contribute to biodiversity, climate adaptation and drainage management objectives. 

Sustainable Development and Carbon Reduction (moderate weight) 

3.6.16  The development would deliver a 79% reduction in carbon emissions with the remainder offset 

via a financial contribution. It incorporates a communal air and water source heat pump system, 

high fabric efficiency, and PV panels, all of which contribute to London’s net zero carbon 

ambitions. 

Transport (moderate weight) 

3.6.17  The development would be ‘car free’ and provide an appropriate quantity of cycle parking 

spaces for this location and would be further supported by sustainable transport initiatives ,

including a financial contribution towards walking and cycling improvements in the area .

# Conclusion 

3.6.18  In officers’ assessment the application complies with the development plan when looked at 

overall. 

3.6.19  There are material considerations in favour of the scheme, namely the delivery of additional 

housing, a contribution towards off -site affordable housing, and replacement office space. No 

material considerations have been identified that outweigh the merits of the proposal. Officers 

are therefore recommending that the application is approved. ↑ To contents 

# 3.7 Recommendations 

1.  Resolve to grant conditional planning permission subject to the completion of a satisfactory 

deed under Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 containing the planning 

obligations as set out in this report, addenda and/or PAC minutes. 

2.  Agree to delegate authority to the Director of Climate, Planning and Transport to: (a). Finalise 

the recommended conditions as set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes; and (b).

Negotiate, agree and finalise the planning obligations as set out in this report, addend a and/or 

PAC minutes pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 .

3.  In the event that the Committee resolves to refuse planning permission and there is a 

subsequent appeal, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport , having regard to this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes, to propose planning 

conditions and to negotiate and complete a document containing obligations pursuant to 

Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 in order to meet the requirement of the 

Planning Inspector. 

4.  In the event that a satisfactory Section 106 deed is not completed within six months of the date 

of the Committee meeting, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport to refuse planning permission for failure to enter into a Section 106 deed providing for 

the obligations considered necessary to make the development acceptable in planning terms as 

identified in this report, addenda and/or the PAC minutes. ↑ To contents 

# 4. Appendices 

# Appendix 1 – Draft Decision Notice 

# DRAFT DECISION NOTICE 

Dear Mr Stuart Minty 

# TOWN AND COUNTRY PLANNING ACT 1990 .

# PERMISSION FOR DEVELOPMENT 

The London Borough of Lambeth hereby permits under the above -mentioned Acts and associated 

orders the development referred to in the schedule set out below subject to any conditions and s106 

legal agreement imposed therein and in accordance with the plans submitted, save in so far as may 

otherwise be required by the said conditions. 

In accordance with the statutory provisions your attention is drawn to the statement of Applicant’s Rights 

and General Information attached. 

Application Number: 24/01346/FUL Date of Application: 29 .0 4.2024 Date of Decision: 

Proposed Development At : 346 Clapham Road, London, SW9 9AP 

For: Demolition of a 4 -storey office building (Use Class E) and redevelopment of the site involving the 

erection of a 7 -storey building to provide office floorspace (Use Class E(g)(i)) and 30 residential units 

(Use Class C3) together with relocation of the subs tation, the provision of cycle and refuse store. 

Your Ref: 

Our Ref: 24/0 1346 /FUL 

Mr Stuart Minty 

SM Planning 

80 -83 Long Lane 

London 

EC1A 9FT ↑ To contents 

Conditions :

1.  Time Limit 

The development to which this permission relates must be began no later than three years from 

the date of this decision notice. 

Reason: To comply with the provisions of Section 91 of the Town and Country Planning Act 

1990 (as amended). 

2.  Approved drawings 

The development hereby permitted shall be carried out in complete accordance with the 

approved plans and drawings listed in this decision notice, other than where those details are 

altered pursuant to the conditions of this planning permission. 

Reason: For the avoidance of doubt and in the interests of proper planning. 

3.  Use 

Notwithstanding the provisions of the Town and Country Planning (General Permitted 

Development) (England) Order 2015 (or any order revoking and re -enacting that Order with or 

without modification), the ground floor units mar ked as ‘office’ on the approved plans shall only 

be used for purposes that fall within Use Class E(g)(i) of the Town and Country Planning (Use 

Classes) Order 2020 (as amended) (or any order/s revoking and re -enacting those orders with 

or without modification ) and shall not be used for any other purpose .

Reason: To safeguard the office use (Policy E2 of the London Plan (March 2021) and Policy 

ED1 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

4.  Hours of use 

The office units (Use Class E(g)(i)) on the ground floor shall only be open for customer business 

between the hours of 07:00 and 22:00 on Monday to Saturday and 09:00 and 20:00 on Sundays 

and Bank Holidays / Public Holidays .

Reason: To protect the amenities of future residential occupiers and the surrounding area 

(Policy D6 of the London Plan (March 2021) and Policies Q2, ED7 and ED9 of the Lambeth 

Local Plan (September 2021)). 

5.  Wheelchair housing 

At least 10% (3x homes) of the residential units hereby permitted hereby permitted shall be 

wheelchair adaptable/accessible units constructed to comply with Part M4 (3) of the Building 

Regulations. Any communal areas and accesses serving the M4 (3) complia nt Wheelchair User 

Dwellings should also comply with Part M4 (3). All other residential units, communal areas and 

accesses hereby permitted shall be constructed to comply with Part M4 (2) of the Building 

Regulations. 

Reason: To secure appropriate access for disabled people, older people and others with 

mobility constraints (Policy D7 of the London Plan (March 2021) and Policies Q1 and H5 of the 

Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

6.  No external rainwater pipes ↑ To contents 

No plumbing or pipes, other than rainwater pipes, shall be fixed to the external faces of the 

building unless the prior written approval of the local planning authority is obtained to any 

variation, or except where otherwise stated on the approved drawings .

Reason: To ensure an appropriate standard of design (Policy D4 of the London Plan (March 

2021) and Policies Q2, Q5, Q7, and Q15 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

7.  Ground floor commercial frontages 

The window glass of each commercial unit shall be clear glass and shall not be mirrored, tinted 

or otherwise obscured. The development shall be permanently maintained in this form. No 

external security roller shutters or roller blinds shall be attached to the shop fronts hereby 

permitted. 

Reason: To prevent visual clutter, and to ensure a satisfactory external appearance to the 

design of the building (Policies Q6 and Q8 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

8.  Energy statement 

The development shall be built in accordance with the approved Energy Statement (prepared by 

Sustain Quality Ltd, number 001121, version 3., dated 12/03/2024) demonstrating how the 

development will follow the hierarchy of energy efficiency, decentralised e nergy and renewable 

energy technologies to secure a minimum 35% reduction in CO2 emissions beyond Building 

Regulations Part L 2021. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability and it makes 

the fullest contribution to minimising carbon dioxide emissions (Policies SI 2 and SI 3 of the 

London Plan (March 2021), and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

9.  Telecommunications equipment 

Notwithstanding the provisions of the Town and Country Planning (General Permitted 

Development) (Amendment) (No.2) (England) Order 2015 (or any Order revoking or re -

enacting that Order with or without modification), no aerials, antennae, satellite dishes or related 

telecommunications equipment shall be erected on any part of the development hereby 

permitted. 

Reason: To ensure that the visual impact of telecommunication equipment upon the 

surrounding area can be considered (Policy SI 6 the London Plan (March 2021) and Policies T9 

of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

10.  Digital connectivity 

Sufficient ducting space for full fibre connectivity infrastructure must be provided within the 

development. 

Reason: To provide high quality digital connectivity infrastructure to contribute to London’s 

global competitiveness (Policy SI 6 of the London Plan (March 2021) and Policy T9 of the 

Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

NO DEVELOPME NT 

11.  Construction logistics plan 

No development including demolition shall take place until a construction logistics plan has 

be en submitted to and approved in writing by Local Planning Authority. The plan shall be base d↑ To contents 

on the submitted Framework Construction Traffic Management Plan (prepared by Markides 

Associates, revision C, dated 18.01.2024) and it shall include the following detail: 

a)  the parking of vehicles of site operatives and visitors; 

b)  loading and unloading of plant and materials; 

c)  storage of plant and materials used in construction the development; 

d)  the erection and maintenance of security hoardings including decorative displays and 

facilities for public viewing; 

e)  wheel washing facilities; 

f)  a scheme for recycling/disposing of waste resulting from demolition and construction 

works ;

g)  measures for the control and reduction of dust ; and 

h)  measures for the control and reduction of noise and vibration. 

The construction of the development shall be carried out in accordance with the approved plan. 

Reason: To ensure satisfactory construction traffic and vehicle management (Policy T7 of the 

London Plan (March 2021) and Policy T7 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021) ). 

12.  Construction environmental management plan 

No demolition or development shall commence until a Construction Environmental Management 

Plan (CEMP) has been submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning authority. The 

CEMP shall include details of the following relevant measures: 

I.  A description of the main contractors’ management responsibilities including complaint 

recording and management; 

II.  A description of the construction and demolition programme which identifies activities likely 

to cause high levels of noise or dust and the specific mitigation measures to be employed; 

III.  A named person for residents to contact within the main contractors’ organisation; 

IV.  Detailed site logistics arrangements including provision of a suitable booking system for 

HGV deliveries ;

V.  Details regarding parking, deliveries, and storage; 

VI.  A Traffic Management Plan, outlining construction vehicle routing and how traffic 

congestion and the impact on the surrounding area will be minimised as a result of the 

construction works, whilst maintaining safe access routes for pedestrians and other key 

stakeholders; 

VII.  A suitably qualified person shall develop a scheme of ongoing continuous monitoring and 

reporting of construction noise and dust impacts against suitable targets in accordance with 

BS5228 Code of Practice for Noise and Vibration control and the Mayor of Lo ndon’s SPG 

2014 and provision of monitoring results and including any actions arising to the local 

planning authority; 

VIII.  Site delivery hours and other measures to mitigate the impact of construction on the 

amenity of the area and safety of the highway network; 

IX.  Communication procedures with the LBL and local community regarding key construction 

issues – newsletters, fliers etc.; 

X.  A Site Wide Waste Management Plan (SWWMP) demonstrating how waste from demolition 

and construction will be minimised and dealt with giving due regard to the waste hierarchy, 

with minimal (target of less than 5 per cent by weight) disposal to landfill (the SWWMP shall 

include details of the likely destination of all waste streams (beyond the Materials Recycling 

Facility) and a written confirmation that the destination landfill(s) has/have the capacity to 

receive waste). ↑ To contents 

XI.  An Air Quality and Dust Management Plan (AQDMP) in accordance with the GLA’s Control 

of Dust and Emissions during Construction and Demolition SPG 2014: 

a.  Summary of work to be carried out; 

b.  Proposed haul routes, location of site equipment including supply of water for damping 

down, source of water, drainage and enclosed areas to prevent contaminated water 

leaving the site; 

c.  Inventory and timetable of all dust and NOx air pollutant generating activities; 

d.  List of all dust and emission control methods to be employed and how they relate to 

the Air Quality (Dust) Risk Assessment; 

e.  Details of any fuel stored on -site; 

f.  Details of a trained and responsible person on -site for air quality (with knowledge of 

pollution monitoring and control methods, and vehicle emissions); 

g.  Summary of monitoring protocols and agreed procedure of notification to the local 

authority; and 

h.  A log book for action taken in response to incidents or dust -causing episodes and the 

mitigation measure taken to remedy any harm caused, and measures employed to 

prevent a similar incident reoccurring. 

No demolition or development shall commence until all necessary pre -commencement 

measures described in the AQDMP have been put in place and set out on site. The construction 

work shall thereafter be carried out in accordance with the details and measures a pproved in 

the CEMP, unless the written consent of the local planning authority is received for any 

variation. 

Reason: Development must not commence before this condition is discharged to avoid hazard 

and obstruction being caused to users of the public highway, to safeguard residential amenity 

from the start of the construction process, and to reduce the environmen tal impact of demolition 

and construction (Policies SI 1, SI 7 and T7 of the London Plan (2021) , and Policies T7, EN7 

and Q2 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

13.  Tunnel Safeguarding 

No development including demolition shall take place until detailed design and method 

statements (in consultation with London Underground) for demolition, all of the foundations, 

ground floor structures, or for any other structures below ground level, incl uding piling 

(temporary and permanent), have been submitted to and approved in writing by the Local 

Planning Authority which: 

a)  provide demolition and construction details on all structures 

b)  accommodate the location of the existing London Underground structures and tunnels 

c)  accommodate ground movement arising from the construction thereof - tunnel monitoring 

may be required 

d)  and mitigate the effects of noise and vibration arising from the adjoining operations within 

the structures and tunnels. 

The development shall thereafter be carried out in all respects in accordance with the approved 

design and method statements, and all structures and works comprised within the development 

hereby permitted which are required by the approved design statement s in order to procure the 

matters mentioned in paragraphs of this condition shall be completed, in their entirety, before 

any part of the building hereby permitted is occupied. ↑ To contents 

Reason: To ensure that the development does not impact on existing London Underground 

transport infrastructure (Policy T3 of the London Plan (March 2021) and 'Land for Industry and 

Transport' Supplementary Planning Guidance 2012). 

14.  Contamination 

a)  No development other than demolition shall take place until the following components of a 

scheme to deal with the risks associated with contamination of the site have been 

submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning authority: 

i.  a desk study and site investigation scheme based on previous findings to provide 

information for a detailed assessment of the risks, including specific consideration of 

asbestos and organic compounds and unexploded ordnance to all receptors, including 

thos e off -site; that may be affected, 

ii.  the site investigation results and the detailed risk assessment resulting from i); 

iii.  an options appraisal and remediation strategy giving full details of the remediation 

measures required and how they are to be undertaken; 

iv.  a verification plan providing details of the data that will be collected in order to 

demonstrate that the works set out in iii) are complete and identifying any requirements 

for longer -term monitoring of pollutant linkages, maintenance and arrangements for 

contingency action. The development shall thereafter be implemented in accordance 

with the details and measures approved. 

b)  Prior to occupation of any part of the development, a verification report demonstrating 

completion of the works set out in the approved remediation strategy and the 

effectiveness of the remediation shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local 

planning authority. The report shall include results of sampling and monitoring carried out 

in accordance with the approved verification plan to demonstrate that the site remediation 

criteria have been met. It shall also include any plan (a “long -term mon itoring and 

maintenance plan”) for longer -term monitoring of pollutant linkages, maintenance and 

arrangements for contingency action, as identified in the verification plan, and for the 

reporting of this to the local planning authority. 

c)  If, during development, contamination not previously identified is found to be present at 

the site then no further development shall be carried out until the developer has submitted 

and obtained written approval from the Local Planning Authority for, an am endment to the 

remediation strategy detailing how this unsuspected contamination will be dealt with. 

Reason: Development must not commence before relevant parts of this this condition are 

discharged to safeguard future users or occupiers of this site and the wider environment, 

including groundwater, from irreversible risks associated with the contaminants which are 

present by ensuring that the contaminated land is properly treated and made safe before 

development. Depending on the outcome of any ground investigation and subsequent risk 

assessment, it may be necessary for remediation to be carried out. If t his is the case, it will be 

necessary to demonstrate that any work has been carried out effectively and the environmental 

risks have been satisfactorily managed (section 2.1.8 of the London Plan (2021) and EN4 of the 

Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

15.  Environmental noise 

a)  No development other than demolition shall take place until a scheme of noise mitigation 

and mechanical ventilation sufficient to prevent overheating and maintain thermal comfort 

has be en submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority. The ↑ To contents 

Assessment shall be based on the CIBSE overheating position statement and shall 

demonstrate that CIBSE TM59 methodology has been used and CIBSE TM49 modelling 

requirements have been suitably considered. The scheme of noise mitigation shall be 

based on the principles detailed in the Sound Advice Environmental Noise Impact 

Assessment dated 5th October 2023 and shall include details of suitable mechanical 

ventilation which shall then be designed in accordance with the ANC Acoustics Ventilation 

and Overheating: Residential Design Guide 2020. The scheme shall include performance 

details and a glazing plan sufficient to achieve the habitable and commercial room 

standards as detailed in BS8233:2014 with no relaxation for exceptional circumstances 

and appropriate co nsideration of LAmax including details of post construction validation 

measurements. 

b)  Prior to occupation a final verification report shall be submitted to and approved in writing 

by the local Planning authority. All work must be carried out by suitably qualified person 

and the approved noise, vibration attenuation and ventilation measures shall thereafter be 

retained and maintained in working order for the duration of the use in accordance with 

the approved details. 

Reason: To protect the amenities of adjoining occupiers and the surrounding area (policy Q2 of 

the Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

16.  Biodiversity net gain (B NG )

No development shall commence until a Biodiversity Gain Plan and Biodiversity Management 

Plan (also known as a Habitat Management & Monitoring Plan or HMMP) has been submitted to 

and approved in writing by the planning authority, demonstrating a minimum 10 % net gain in 

biodiversity. 

The Biodiversity Gain Plan must include matters outlined in paragraph 14(2) of Schedule 7A of 

the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, and the following information, where relevant: 

(a) Baseline data collection and assessment of current conditions on site, 

(b) A commitment to measures in line with the Mitigation Hierarchy and evidence of how BNG 

Principles have been applied to maximise benefits to biodiversity, 

(c) Provision of the full BNG calculations, with detailed justifications for the choice of habitat 

types, distinctiveness and condition, connectivity and ecological functionality, 

(d) Details of the implementation measures and management of proposals, 

(e) and, 

(f) Details of the monitoring and auditing measures. 

The approved development shall thereafter be implemented in accordance with the approved 

Biodiversity Gain Plan. 

The Biodiversity Management Plan (or HMMP) shall include 30 -year objectives, management 

responsibilities, maintenance schedules and a methodology to ensure the submission of 

monitoring reports. 

Monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Council during years 2,5, 7, 10, 20 and 30 following 

commencement of development, unless otherwise stated in the approved Biodiversity 

Management Plan, and demonstrate how the BNG is progressing towards achievin g its 

objectives, evidence of arrangements and any rectifying measures needed. ↑ To contents 

Reason: To ensure the development delivers biodiversity net gain in accordance with the 

provisions of the Environmental Act (2021) Policy EN1 of Lambeth Local Plan (2021) and Policy 

G6 of the London Plan (2021) and the National Planning Policy Framework (202 4). 

17.  Flood risk and drainage 

No development other than demolition shall commence on site until a detailed design for the 

surface water drainage system and associated pipework presented in the Flood Risk 

Assessment & Drainage Strategy has been submitted to and approved in writing by the lo cal 

planning authority. The scheme for the surface water drainage shall be carried out in 

accordance with the approved details before the development is first put in to use/occupied. 

Reason: To ensure the development is provided with a satisfactory means of drainage and in 

the interests of securing a more sustainable development and to reduce the impact of flooding 

both to and from the development and third parties in accordance with P olicy SI 13 of the 

London Plan (2021) and Policy EN6 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021) .

PRIOR TO ABOVE GROUND WORKS 

18.  Fire strategy 

Prior to commencement of the above ground works , an updated Fire Strategy shall be 

submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning authority. T he strategy document 

should be completed fully in line with guidance published by MHCLG, by a suitably competent 

person. The fire safety measures, and design must be retained as such for the lifetime of the 

development. 

Reason: To achieve the highest standards of fire safety and ensure the safety of all building 

users (Policies D5 and D12 of the London Plan (March 2021) and Policy Q2 of the Lambeth 

Local Plan (September 2021)). 

19.  Full plant noise assessment 

a)  Prior to commencement of the above ground works a scheme of assessment of the 

acoustic impact arising from the operation of all internally and externally located 

commercial plant shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning 

Authority . The assessment of the acoustic impact shall be undertaken in accordance with 

BS 4142: 2014 (or subsequent superseding equivalent) and other relevant measures and 

shall include a scheme of attenuation measures to ensure the rating level of noise emitted 

from the proposed building services plant is no greater than 5 dbA less than background. 

b)  The use of the building or the operation of any building services plant, shall not 

commence until a post -installation noise assessment has been carried out by a suitably 

qualified acoustic consultant including suitable measurements to confirm compliance wi th 

the approved noise criteria which shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the 

Local Planning Authority. The scheme shall be implemented in accordance with the 

approved details and attenuation measures, and they shall be permanently retained and 

maintained in working order for the duration of the use and their operation. 

Reason: To minimise increased exposure to existing poor air quality and make provision to 

address local problems of air quality (particularly within AQMAs) (Policy SI 1 of the London Plan 

(March 2021) and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 202 1)). 

20.  Non combustion heating scheme ↑ To contents 

Prior to commencement of the above ground works a detailed desk study and design scheme 

for the installation of individual air source heat pumps (ASHP) servicing each individual 

residential unit hereby permitted shall be submitted to and approved in writin g by the Local 

Planning Authority. The scheme shall include an assessment of the noise impacts of the ASHP 

units on adjoining sensitive rooms of both the host properties and neighbouring premises and 

shall include suitable noise mitigation sufficient to ac hieve a noise rating of 5dB below 

background noise levels at the receiving windows of each sensitive habitable room. The 

scheme shall include provision of suitable antivibration mounts and where necessary suitably 

specified acoustic enclosures. All details as approved shall be retained and suitably maintained 

for the duration of the use hereby approved. 

Reason: To minimise increased exposure to existing poor air quality and make provision to 

address local problems of air quality (particularly within AQMAs) (Policy SI 1 of the London Plan 

(March 2021) and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 202 1)). 

21.  Detailed design 

Prior to commencement of relevant works and notwithstanding the details shown on the 

drawings hereby approved, construction drawings of all external elevations (at scale 1:10) 

including the following items shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning 

authority: 

a)  Detailed external elevations; 

b)  Details of windows (including technical details, opening methods, elevations, reveal 

depths, plans and cross sections); 

c)  Details of entrances, canopies and doors (including technical details, elevations, 

surrounds, reveal depths, plans and sections); 

d)  Details of balustrading; 

e)  Details of roof treatments, cills and parapets ;

f)  Details of rainwater goods (including locations and fixings shown in external elevations); 

g)  Details of boundary treatments including external walls, fences and gates; 

h)  Details of external furniture, lighting, steps and ramps; 

i)  Vents, extracts, flues and ducts (including shown on external elevations) ;

j)  Privacy screens and obscure glazing; 

k)  Building signage; and 

l)  Mailboxes .

The development shall not be carried out other than in accordance with the approved details 

unless otherwise agreed in writing by the local planning authority. 

The privacy screens shall be installed in full accordance with the approved details prior to the 

occupation of any part of the development hereby approved, and shall be retained as such for 

the duration of the development. 

Reason: To ensure that the external appearance of the building is satisfactory (Policies Q2, Q5 ,

Q7 and Q15 of the Lambeth Local Plan (20 21 )).

22.  External materials 

Notwithstanding the details within the application hereby approved, prior to the commencement 

of relevant works , drawings (at 1:10 scale [including sections] showing all external construction 

detailing), for the relevant part of the development shall be submitted to and approved in writing ↑ To contents 

by the local planning authority, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the local planning 

authority. The drawings shall include details of: 

a)  A technical specification schedule of the external materials, including but not limited to 

building facades, soffits, copings, terraces and balustrades, entrances and external doors, 

cills, windows, reveals, ramps, roof treatments, plant screens, and bound ary treatments. 

b)  Sample panels to be made available on site (or another convenient local location), at a 

scale of 1:1, for inspection showing 'typical' façade construction and illustrating the 

materials and their construction detailing. 

c)  A photographic record of the sample panels, taken on site at midday. 

The development shall not be carried out other than in accordance with the approved details 

unless otherwise agreed in writing by the local planning authority. 

Reason: To ensure that the external appearance of the building is satisfactory (Policies Q2, Q5 

and Q7 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

23.  Landscaping and green roof 

a)  Prior to commencement of the above ground works a scheme of soft landscaping 

(showing any trees and/or hedges to be retained and proposed plant numbers, species, 

location and size of trees and tree pits) and details of the management and maintenance 

of the landscaping for a period of five years shall be submitted to and approved in writing 

by the Local Planning Authority. 

b)  Prior to commencement of the above ground works a green roof planting scheme that 

includes at least 25 species of plants and details of the management and maintenance of 

the green roof for the lifetime of the development shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority. 

c)  The soft landscaping and green roof planting schemes must demonstrate that the 

development would achieve the Urban Greening Factor of at least 0.4 or better. 

d)  All planting, seeding or turfing shall be carried out in the first planting and seeding 

seasons following the completion of the development, in accordance with the approved 

scheme under part (a). 

e)  Any trees, hedge, and/or plants which within a period of five years from the completion of 

the development die, are removed or become seriously damaged or diseased, shall be 

replaced in the next planting season with others of similar size and species. The green 

roofs shall be thereafter maintained in accordance with the approved details for the 

lifetime of the development. 

Reason: To introduce high quality soft landscaping in and around the site in the interests of the 

ecological value of the site and to ensure a satisfactory landscaping of the site in the interests of 

visual amenity (Policies G5 and G6 of the London Plan (M arch 2021) and Policies EN1, Q6, and 

Q9 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

24.  Bird and bat boxes 

Prior to commencement of the above ground works detail s of the number, type and location of 

the bird and bat boxes to be provided as part of the development hereby approved shall be 

submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority and shall be installed in full ↑ To contents 

accordance with the approved details before occupation of the building and maintained in 

perpetuity. 

Reason: To secure appropriate features to conserve and enhance wildlife habitats and 

biodiversity measures within the development (Policy G6 of the London Plan (March 2021) and 

Policy EN1 the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

25.  Greywater and rainwater re -use 

Prior to commencement of the above ground works , documentation shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by the local planning authority assessing the feasibility of greywater and 

rainwater reuse. Where feasible these technologies will be implemented. Prior to first 

occupation of the development here by approved, evidence (including a schedule of fittings, 

manufacturer's literature) shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning 

Authority to show that the approved water efficient mea sures (BREEAM Wat02, Wat03 and 

Wat04) have been implemented. 

Reason: To minimise water use (Policy SI5 of the London Plan 2021 and Policy EN6 of the 

Lambeth Local Plan (2021) ). 

26.  Water use 

Prior to commencement of the above ground works , documentation (Part G compliant 

calculations) shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning authority 

demonstrating an internal residential water use of 105l/person/day or less. Prior to first 

occupation of the development hereby appr oved, evidence (including a schedule of fittings and 

manufacturer's literature) shall be submitted to the Local Planning Authority and approved in 

writing to show that a residential internal water use of 105L/person/day or less has been 

achieved for all dw ellings. 

Reason: To minimise water use (Policy SI5 of the London Plan 2021). 

27.  SBD measures 

a)  Prior to commencement of the above ground works a scheme of security measures to 

minimise the risk of crime and to meet the principles and objectives of Secured by Design 

that would be incorporated in the development shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority in consultation with Metropolitan Police, Secure by 

Design. The development shall be implemented in accordance with the approved details 

prior to occupation. 

b)  Prior to first occupation of the development a satisfactory Secured by Design inspection 

must take place. The resulting Secured by Design certificate shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority in consultation with Metropolitan 

Police, Secure by Design. 

Reason: To ensure that the development maintains and enhances community safety (Policy 

D11 of the London Plan (March 2021) and Policy Q3 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 

2021)). 

PRIOR TO OCCUPATION 

28.  Fascia’s/Signage ↑ To contents 

Prior to first occupation of a new business in any unit/s in Use Class E(g)(i), details of the fascia 

and signage shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority and 

the development shall thereafter be implemented in full accordance with the approved details. 

Reason: To prevent visual clutter, and to ensure a satisfactory external appearance to the 

design of the building. (Policies Q6 (Urban design: public realm) and Q8 Design quality: 

construction detailing) of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

29.  External lighting 

a)  Prior to first occupation of the development a scheme for any external lighting that is to be 

installed at the site, including measures to prevent light spillage shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by the local planning authority. The submitted details should 

demonstrate that the proposed lighting is the minimum needed for security and working 

purposes and that the proposals minimise pollution from glare and spillage. 

b)  Any such external lighting as approved under part (a) shall be installed in accordance with 

the approved drawings before the development is first occupied, or in accordance with an 

agreed implementation strategy, and retained hereafter for the duration of the 

development in accordance with the approved details. 

Reason: To ensure a high -quality standard of development to safeguard the character and 

appearance of the site and the local area and protect residential amenity of future occupiers 

(Policy D8 of the London Plan (March 2021) and Policies Q2, Q6, Q7 of the Lambeth Local Plan 

(September 2021)). 

30.  Water use – non residential 

Prior to first occupation of the commercial parts of the development , evidence (including a 

schedule of fittings, manufacturer's literature and water use calculations) shall be submitted to 

and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority to show that a 12.5% reduction in 

building baseline water consumption has been achieved. 

Reason: To minimise water use (Policy SI5 of the London Plan 2021). 

31.  Building materials 

Prior to first occupation of the development evidence shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority demonstrating that the materials used are in accordance 

with the approved sustainability statement. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability (Policy EN4 

of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

32.  National calculation method 

Prior to first occupation of the development evidence (e.g. photographs, copies of installation 

contracts and as -built worksheets prepared under the National Calculation Method) shall be 

submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning authority to demonstrate that the 

development has been carried out in accordance with the approved Energy Statement unless 

otherwise agreed by the local planning authority in writing. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability and it makes 

the fullest contribution to minimising carbon dioxide emissions (Policies SI 2 and SI 3 of the 

London Plan (March 2021), and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). ↑ To contents 

33.  Construction and demolition waste 

Prior to first occupation of the development evidence shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority to show that at least 95% of non -hazardous construction 

waste has been reused, recycled or recovered. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability (Policy EN7 

Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

34.  Excavation material 

Prior to first occupation of the development evidence shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority to show that at least 95% of non -hazardous excavation 

waste has been used for beneficial uses. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability (Policy EN7 

of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

35.  Overheating 

Prior to the occupation of the development evidence shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority demonstrating that the risk of overheating has been 

minimised and the reliance on air conditioning has been minimised in line with the GLA's cooling 

hierarchy and confirming compliance with CIBSE TM59 (including the results from the analysis) 

and that CIBSE TM49 has been considered. Any mitigation measures required to reduce 

overheating shall be completed prior to occupation and thereafter be retained for the lifetime of 

the development. 

Reason: To ensure the design of the development reduces (as far as is possible) the potential 

for overheating and reliance on air conditioning systems (Policies SI 2 and SI 4 of the London 

Plan (March 2021)) and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (Septem ber 2021). 

36.  Whole life carbon 

Prior to the occupation of the development the postconstruction tab of the GLA’s whole life 

carbon assessment template shall be completed accurately and in its entirety in line with the 

GLA’s Whole Life Carbon Assessment Guidance. The post -construction ass essment should 

provide an update of the information submitted at planning submission stage, including the 

whole life carbon emission figures for all life -cycle modules based on the actual materials, 

products and systems used. This should be submitted to th e GLA at: 

ZeroCarbonPlanning@london.gov.uk, along with any supporting evidence as per the guidance. 

Confirmation of submission to the GLA shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the 

local planning authority prior to occupation of the development. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability and it makes 

the fullest contribution to minimising carbon dioxide emissions (Policies SI 2 and SI 3 of the 

London Plan (March 2021), and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

37.  Circular economy 

Prior to the occupation of the development a Post -Completion Report setting out the predicted 

and actual performance against all numerical targets in the approved Circular Economy 

Statement shall be submitted to the GLA at: CircularEconomyLPG@london.gov.uk , along with 

any supporting evidence as per the GLA’s Circular Economy Statement Guidance. The Post 

Completion Report shall provide updated versions of Tables 1 and 2 of the Circular Economy ↑ To contents 

Statement, the Recycling and Waste Reporting form and Bill of Materials. Confirmation of 

submission to the GLA shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning 

authority prior to occupation of the development. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability and it makes 

the fullest contribution to minimising carbon dioxide emissions (Policies SI 2 and SI 3 of the 

London Plan (March 2021), and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

38.  BREEAM 

a)  Within six months of work starting on site a BREEAM New Construction V6 Offices, Shell 

and Core, Design Stage (Interim) certificate and summary score sheet shall be submitted 

to and approved in writing by the local planning authority to show that an Excell ent rating 

(minimum score 70%) has been achieved for the new build offices development. 

b)  Within six months of occupation of the development hereby permitted, a BREEAM New 

Construction V6 Offices, Shell and Core, Post Construction Review (Final), certificate and 

summary score sheet shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local plan ning 

authority to show that an Excellent rating (minimum score 70%) has been achieved the 

new build offices development. 

c)  Within six months of refurbishment and fitout work starting on site a BREEAM 

Refurbishment and Fitout 2014 Parts 3 and 4, Design Stage (Interim) certificate and 

summary score sheet shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning 

authority to show that an Excellent rating (minimum s core 70%) has been achieved for the 

refurbishment of the development. 

d)  Within six months of occupation of the commercial development hereby permitted, a 

BREEAM Refurbishment and Fitout 2014 Parts 3 and 4, Post Construction Review (Final) 

certificate and summary score sheet shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the 

local planning authority to show that an Excellent rating (minimum score 70%) has been 

for the refurbishment of the development. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability (Policy EN4 

of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

39.  Energy strategy monitoring 

Prior to occupation of the development hereby permitted, updated accurate and verified ‘as -

built’ design estimates of the ‘Be Seen’ energy performance indicators for the development, as 

per the methodology outlined in the ‘As -built stage’ chapter / section of the GLA ‘Be Seen’ 

energy monitoring guidance (or any document that may replace it), together with supporting 

evidence, shall be submitted to the GLA using the ‘Be Seen’ as -built stage reporting webform 

(https://www.london.gov.uk/what -we -do/planning/implementing -london -plan/london -plan -

guidance -and -spgs/be -seen -energy -monitoring -guidance ). It shall also be confirmed that 

suitable monitoring devices have been installed and maintained for the monitoring of the in -use 

energy performance indicators, as outlined in the ‘In -use stage’ of the GLA ‘Be Seen’ energy 

monitoring guidance document (or any document that may replace it). 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability and it makes 

the fullest contribution to minimising carbon dioxide emissions (Policies SI 2 and SI 3 of the 

London Plan (March 2021) and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan ( September 2021)). 

40.  Delivery and servicing plan 

Prior to the first occupation of the development a full Delivery and Servicing Plan (DSP) that is 

prepared in conformity with the submitted Framework Construction Traffic Management Plan ↑ To contents 

(prepared by Markides Associates, revision C, dated 18.01.2024) shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by Local Planning Authority. The DSP shall cover both the residential and 

non -residential elements of the development and include full details of the onsite Refuse 

Management Strategy. The development shall be carried out in accordance with the details so 

agreed and shall be retained as such thereafter. 

Reason: To ensure that the delivery arrangements to the building as a whole are appropriate 

and to limit the effects of the increase in travel movements (Policy T7 of the London Plan 

(March 2021) and Policy T7 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

41.  Travel plan 

Prior to the first occupation of the development a full Travel Plan that is prepared in conformity 

with the submitted Framework Construction Traffic Management Plan (prepared by Markides 

Associates, revision C, dated 18.01.2024) shall be submitted to and a pproved in writing by 

Local Planning Authority. The full Travel Plan shall cover both the residential and non -

residential elements of the development. The development shall be carried out in accordance 

with the details so agreed and shall be retained as su ch thereafter. 

Reason: To ensure that the travel arrangements to the site are appropriate and to limit the 

effects of the increase in travel movements (Policy T4 of the London Plan (March 2021) and 

Policies D4, T1 and T6 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021)). 

42.  Waste management 

Prior to t he occupation of the development hereby permitted, details of waste and recycling 

storage for the development shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning 

authority. The waste and recycling storage shall be provided in accordance with the approved 

details prior to the occupation of the development hereby permitted, and shall thereafter be 

retained solely for its designated use. The waste and recycling storage areas/facilities should 

comply with the Lambeth’s Refuse & Recycli ng Storage Design Guide (2022) and Lambeth’s 

Was te & Recycling Storage and Collection Requirements Guidance (2023) , unless it is 

demonstrated in the submissions that such provision is inappropriate for this specific 

development. 

Reason: To ensure suitable provision for the occupiers of the development, to encourage the 

sustainable management of waste and to safeguard the visual amenities of the area (Policies 

Q2 and Q12 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

43.  Non -road -mobile machinery  (NRMM )

No Non -Road Mobile Machinery (NRMM) shall be used on the site unless it is compliant with 

the NRMM Low Emission Zone requirements (or any superseding requirements). An inventory 

of all NRMM must be kept on site during the demolitions, site preparation and construction 

phases. All machinery should be regularly serviced, and service logs kept on site for inspection. 

Records should be kept on site which details proof of emission limits for all equipment. This 

documentation should be made available to Local Pla nning Authority officers as required until 

development completion. 

Reason: To ensure that air quality is not adversely affected by the development (Policy SI 1 of 

the London Plan (March 2021), Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (September 2021), and 

the Mayor’s SPG: The Control of Dust and Emissions during Construction and Demolition (July 

2014)). ↑ To contents 

44.  PV panels 

Prior to the installation of the photovoltaic panels , a scheme showing the siting, size, number 

and design of the photovoltaic (PV) arrays, including cross sections of the roof of the building 

with the equipment in situ, shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning 

authority. The deve lopment shall thereafter be completed in strict accordance with the approved 

details. 

Reason: To safeguard the appearance of the completed development and to ensure that the 

development has an acceptable level of sustainability ( Policies SI 2 and SI 3 of the London Plan 

(2021), and Policies EN4, Q2, Q7 and Q8 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

45.  Cycle parking 

Prior to occupation of the development hereby permitted, details of the cycle parking shall be 

submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning authority. This shall include provision 

for at least 10% of the long stay cycle spaces being provided with electric charging plugs and 

electrical infrastructure . The cycle parking shall be installed in full accordance with the approved 

details prior to occupation of the development. The cycle parking shall thereafter be retained 

solely for its designated u se .

Reason: To ensure adequate cycle parking is available on site and to promote sustainable 

modes of transport (Policy T5 of the London Plan (2021) , and Policies T1, T3 and Q13 of the 

Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

46.  Flooding and drainage 

No development shall be brought in to use/occupied until a management and maintenance plan 

of the final surface water management system and associated pipework has been submitted to 

and approved in writing by the local planning authority. The plan must con sider the 

management and maintenance for the lifetime of the development which shall include the 

arrangements made to secure the operation of the scheme. The approved plan shall be 

implemented in full in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. 

Reason: To ensure there are clear arrangements in place for ongoing maintenance over the 

lifetime of the development (Government ministerial statement HCWS161). 

47.  Tree Protection 

No demolition or development shall commence until a Tree Protection Plan has been submitted 

to and approved in writing by the local planning authority and until the measures of tree 

protection identified in the approved Tree Protection Plan have been fully implemented. The 

Tree Protection Plan shall thereafter be retained and maintained for the duration of the 

demolition and construction period. 

Reason: Development must not commence before this condition is discharged to ensure the 

retention of, and avoid irrevocable damage to, the retained tree on Union Road adjacent to the 

site that represent an important visual amenity to the locality and the wider surrounding area 

(Policy Q10 of the Lambeth Local Plan (20 21 )) .

Informative s:

1.  This decision letter does not convey an approval or consent which may be required under any 

enactment, by -law, order or regulation, other than Section 57 of the Town and Country Planning 

Act 1990. ↑ To contents 

2.  This permission is subject to a Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 legal 

agreement. The legal agreement shall be read in conjunction with the associated officer report 

and decision notice. There might be a number of obligations that woul d need to be discharged. 

To discharge obligation/s from the Section 106 Legal Agreement you must submit an 

application to the Local Planning Authority in accordance with the Town and Country Planning 

(Modification and Discharge of Planning Obligations) Reg ulations 1992. 

3.  All relevant planning conditions must be discharged in accordance with the triggers given. 

Requests to discharge conditions must be made by formal application. Fees are £116 per 

request. 

4.  Your attention is drawn to the provisions of the Building Regulations, and related legislation 

which must be complied with to the satisfaction of the Council's Building Control Officer. 

5.  Your attention is drawn to the need to comply with the requirements of the Control of Pollution 

Act 1974 concerning construction site noise and in this respect you are advised to contact the 

Council's Environmental Health Division. 

6.  Your attention is drawn to the provisions of The Party Wall Act 1996 in relation to the rights of 

adjoining owners regarding party walls etc. These rights are a matter for civil enforcement and 

you may wish to consult a surveyor or architect 

7.  You are advised of the necessity to consult the Council’s Highways team prior to the 

commencement of construction at drw@lambeth.gov.uk in order to obtain necessary approvals 

and licences prior to undertaking any works within the Public Highway including S caffolding, 

Temporary/Permanent Crossovers, Oversailing/Undersailing of the Highway, Drainage/Sewer 

Connections, Hoarding, Excavations (including adjacent to the highway such as basements, 

etc), Temporary Full/Part Road Closures, Craneage Licences etc. 

8.  You are advised of the necessity to consult the Council’s Highway Team at 

drw@lambeth.gov.uk, with regard to any alterations affecting the public footway. 

9.  As soon as building work starts on the development, you must contact the Street Naming and 

Numbering Officer if you need to do the following: 

a)  name a new street 

b)  name a new or existing building 

c)  apply new street numbers to a new or existing building 

This will ensure that any changes are agreed with Lambeth Council before use, in accordance 

with the London Buildings Acts (Amendment) Act 1939 and the Local Government Act 1985. 

Although it is not essential, we also advise you to contact the Street Naming and Numbering 

Officer before applying new names or numbers to internal flats or units. Contact details are 

listed below. 

• Street Naming and Numbering Officer 

• e-mail: streetnn@lambeth.gov.uk 

• tel: 020 7926 2283 

• fax: 020 7926 9104 ↑ To contents 

10.  The applicant is advised to contact London Underground Infrastructure Protection in advance of 

preparation of final design and associated method statements, in particular with regard to: 

demolition; excavation and construction methods. 

11.  The applicant must seek the continual advice of the Metropolitan Police Service Designing Out 

Crime Officers (DOCOs) to achieve accreditation. The services of MPS DOCOs are available 

free of charge and can be contacted via docomailbox.SE@met.police.uk 

Notes to Applicants: 

In dealing with this application the Council has implemented the requirement in the National Planning 

Policy Framework (202 4) to work with the applicant in a positive and proactive manner. The council has 

made available on its website the policies and guidance provided by Lambeth Local Plan 2020 -2035 

(September 2021) and its supplementary planning documents. We also offer a ful l pre -application advice 

service in order to ensure that the applicant has every opportunity to submit an application that’s likely to 

be considered acceptable. 

Yours sincerely 

Rob Bristow 

Director of Planning, Transport and Sustainability 

Growth and Environment Directorate 

Date printed: ↑ To contents 

INFORMATION FOR APPLICANTS GRANTED PLANNING PERMISSION SUBJECT TO 

CONDITIONS, OR WHERE PERMISSION HAS BEEN REFUSED. 

General Information 

This permission is subject to due compliance with any local Acts, regulations, building by -laws and 

general statutory provisions in force in the area and nothing herein shall be regarded as dispensing with 

such compliance or be deemed to be a consent by th e Council thereunder. 

Your attention is drawn to the provisions of the Building Regulations 1985 and related legislation which 

must be complied with to the satisfaction of the Council’s Building Control Officer, PO Box 80771, 

London SW2 9QQ. 

The Council’s permission does not modify or affect any personal or restrictive covenants, easements, 

etc., applying to or affecting the land or the rights of any person entitled to the benefits thereof. 

STATEMENT OF APPLICANT’S RIGHTS ARISING FROM THE REFUSAL OF PLANNING 

PERMISSION OR FROM THE GRANT OF PERMISSION SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS. 

Appeals to the Secretary of State 

If the applicant is aggrieved by the decision of the local planning authority to refuse permission or 

approval for the proposed development or to grant permission or approval subject to conditions, he may 

appeal to the Secretary of State in accordance with Section 78 of the Town and Country Planning Act 

1990 within six months from the date of this notice. Appeals must be made on a form which is 

obtainable from The Planning Inspectorate, Room 3/13 Temple Quay House, 2 The Square, Temple 

Quay, Bristol BS1 6P N. Alternatively an Appeal form can be downloaded from their website at 

https://www.gov.uk/appeal -planning -decision. The Secretary of State has power to allow longer period 

for the giving of a notice of appeal but he will not normally be prepared to exerc ise this power unless 

there are special circumstances which excuse the delay in giving notice of appeal. The Secretary of 

State is not required to entertain an appeal if it appears to him that permission for the proposed 

development could not have been gra nted by the local planning authority, or could not have been so 

granted otherwise than subject to the conditions imposed by them, having regard to the statutory 

requirements, to the provisions of the development order, and to any directions given under the order. 

Purchase Notice 

If permission to develop land is refused or granted subject to conditions, whether by the local planning 

authority or by the Secretary of State for the Environment, and the owner of the land claims that the land 

has become incapable of reasonably beneficia l use in its existing state and cannot be rendered capable 

of reasonable beneficial use by the carrying out of any development which has been or would be 

permitted, he may serve on the London Borough of Lambeth a purchase notice requiring that Council to 

purchase his interest in the land in accordance with the provisions of Section 137 of the Town and 

Country Planning Act 1990. 

Compensation 

In certain circumstances, a claim may be made against the local planning authority for compensation, 

where permission is refused or granted subject to conditions by the Secretary of State for the 

Environment on appeal or on a reference of the application t o him. The circumstances in which such 

compensation is payable are set out in Section 120 and related provision of the Town and Country 

Planning Act 1990. ↑ To contents 

# Appendix 2 – List of main planning policies 

London Plan (2021) 

GG1 Building strong and inclusive communities 

GG2 Making the best use of land 

GG3 Creating a healthy city 

GG4 Delivering the homes Londoners need 

GG5 Growing a good economy 

SD10 Strategic and local regeneration 

D1 London’s form, character and capacity for growth 

D2 Infrastructure requirements for sustainable densities 

D3 Optimising site capacity through the design -led approach 

D4 Delivering good design 

D5 Inclusive design 

D6 Housing quality and standards 

D7 Accessible housing 

D8 Public realm 

D13 Agent of Change 

D14 Noise 

H1 Increasing housing supply 

H4 Delivering affordable housing 

H5 Threshold approach to applications 

H6 Affordable housing tenure 

H10 Housing size mix 

S4 Play and informal recreation 

E1 Offices 

E2 Providing suitable business space 

E11 Skills and opportunities for all 

HC1 Heritage conservation and growth 

HC3 Strategic and Local Views 

G1 Green infrastructure 

G5 Urban greening 

G6 Biodiversity and access to nature 

G7 Trees and woodlands 

SI 1 Improving air quality 

SI 2 Minimising greenhouse gas emissions 

SI 3 Energy infrastructure 

SI 4 Managing heat risk 

SI 5 Water infrastructure 

SI 8 Waste capacity and net waste self -suffic iency 

SI 12 Flood risk management 

SI 13 Sustainable drainage 

T1 Strategic approach to transport 

T2 Healthy Streets 

T3 Transport capacity, connectivity 

T4 Assessing and mitigating transport impacts 

T5 Cycling 

T6 Car parking 

T7 Deliveries, servicing and construction ↑ To contents 

DF1 Delivery of the Plan and Planning Obligations 

M1 Monitoring 

Regional Guidance 

Relevant publications from the GLA include: 

• Accessible London SPG (2014) 

• Air Quality Neutral LPG (202 3)

• Air Quality Positive LPG (202 3)

• ‘Be Seen’ energy monitoring guidance LPG (2021) 

• Character and Context SPG (2014) 

• Characterisation and Growth Strategy LPG (2023) 

• Circular Economy Statements LPG (2022) 

• The Control of Dust and Emissions During Construction and Demolition SPG (2014) 

• Digital Connectivity Infrastructure LPG (2024) 

• Draft Development Viability LPG (2023) 

• Energy Assessment Guidance (2022) 

• Housing Design Standards LPG (2023) 

• London View Management Framework SPG (2012) 

• Optimising site capacity: A design -led approach LPG (202 3)

• Planning for Equality and Diversity in London SPG (2007 )

• Social Infrastructure SPG (2015) 

• Sus tainable Transport, Walking and Cycling LPG (202 2)

• Urban Greening Factor LPG (2023) 

• Whole Life -Cycle Carbon Assessments LPG (2022) 

Lambeth Local Plan 2020 -2035 (2021) 

D1 Delivery and monitoring 

D2 Presumption in favour of sustainable development 

D3 Infrastructure 

D4 Planning obligations 

H1 Maximising housing growth 

H2 Delivering affordable housing 

H4 Housing mix in new developments 

H5 Housing standards 

ED1 Offices 

ED15 Employment and training 

S2 New or improved social infrastructure 

T1 Sustainable travel 

T2 Walking 

T3 Cycling 

T4 Public transport infrastructure 

T6 Parking 

T7 Servicing 

T9 Digital connectivity infrastructure 

EN1 Open space, green infrastructure and biodiversity 

EN3 Decentralised energy 

EN4 Sustainable design and construction ↑ To contents 

EN5 Flood risk 

EN6 Sustainable drainage systems and water management 

EN7 Sustainable waste management 

Q1 Inclusive environments 

Q2 Amenity 

Q3 Safety, crime prevention and counter terrorism 

Q5 Local distinctiveness 

Q6 Urban design: public realm 

Q7 Urban design: new development 

Q8 Design quality: construction detailing 

Q9 Landscaping 

Q10 Trees 

Q12 Refuse and recycling 

Q13 Cycle storage 

Q20 Statutory listed buildings 

Q22 Conservation areas 

Q23 Non -designated heritage assets: local heritage list 

Q25 Views 

Local Guidance / Supplementary Planning Documents (SPD) 

Relevant local guidance and SPDs for Lambeth include: 

• Design Guide SPD (2023) 

• Draft Lambeth Local Views SPD (2024) 

• Advertising & Signage Guidance (2016) 

• Marketing of Employment Premises and Sites Guidance Note (2015) 

• Parking Survey Guidance Note 

• Refuse & Recycling Storage Design Guide (2022) 

• Conservation Area statements 

Other guidance 

• BRE Site layout planning for daylight and sunlight (Third edition, 2022) ↑ To contents 

# Appendix 3 – List of consultees 

External consultees 

Historic England Archaeology 

L.F.C.D Authority 

London Ecology Unit 

London underground 

Metropolitan Police – Design Out Crime Officer 

Thames Water 

Transport for London (TfL) 

UK Power Network 

Internal consultees 

Arboricultural Officer 

Conservation and Design 

Development Infrastructure 

Energy and Sustainability (Blewburton) 

Enterprise/Employment 

Environmental Health (RSS) 

Flood Risk 

Highways 

Housing 

Landscape 

Neighbourhood Regeneration Project Manager 

Regeneration team 

Planning Policy 

Transport 

Waste Contractor 

Other consultees 

Durand Gardens Residents Association 

Kennington Park Estate Tenants Association 

Lansdowne Gardens Conservation Area Residents 

Stockwell Park Residents Association ↑ To contents 

# Appendix 4 – Site photographs 

Photo 1: Application building and Singers Mews development to the north 

Photo 2: Junction between Clapham Road and Union Road showing Phoenix PH (left) and the application 

site (right) ↑ To contents 

Photo 3 (left): Site elevation of the application building showing the difference in build line along Clapham 

Road 

Photo 4 (right): View from Union Road towards Clapham Road 

Photo 5: View from Union Road towards Clapham Road ↑ To contents 

Photo 6 (lef t): View from Union Road towards Clapham Road 

Photo 7 (right): Vehicular access to Site 

Photo 8: View from Union Road towards Clapham Road ↑ To contents 

Photo 9: View on Clapham Road towards Site and junction with Union Road
