Title: 2 Thornlaw Road London Knights Hill 2402054FUL.pdf

URL Source: https://moderngov.lambeth.gov.uk/documents/s173125/2%20Thornlaw%20Road%20ref.%202402054FUL%20-%20PAC%20report%20FINAL.pdf

Published Time: Tue, 27 Jan 2026 12:00:00 GMT

Number of Pages: 71

Markdown Content:
Application for Planning Permission 

Application ref: 24/02054/FUL 

Site: 2 Thornlaw Road London SE27 0SA 

Ward: Knights Hill 

Description : Redevelopment of the site involving the demolition of all existing 

buildings and erection of a part 3, 4 & part 5 storey building plus basement providing 

community space (Use Class F2) and 20 residential flats (Use Class C3), together with 

relocation of ve hicular access to the site from Thornlaw Road to Knights Hill, and parking, 

landscaping and other associated works. 

Applicant: Mr Steve Knott 

Agent: Mr Ian Coomber 

Case officer: Ms Rositsa Malinova 

Drawing nos. See appendix 1 

Reason for PAC referral: Paragraph 2.5.1 a (i) of the PAC terms of reference, which states 

“A pplications for planning permission, other than applications made 

under Section 73 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, 

which are recommended for approval where the application 

includes any of the following: a. the provision of dwelling houses 

where: i. the number of dwelling houses to be provided is 10 or 

more .” 

Recommendation s:

1.  Resolve to grant conditional planning permission subject to the completion of a 

satisfactory deed under Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 containing 

the planning obligations as set out in this report , addend a and/or PAC minutes .

2.  Agree to delegate authority to the Director of Climate Change, Planning and Transport to: 

(a). Finalise the recommended conditions as set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC 

minutes; and (b). Negotiate, agree and finalise the planning obligations as set out in this 

report, addend a and/or PAC minutes pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country 

Planning Act 1990 .

3.  In the event that the Committee resolves to refuse planning permission and there is a 

subsequent appeal, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate Change, Planning 

and Transport, having regard to this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes, to propose 

planning conditions and to negotiate and complete a document containing obligations 

pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 in order to meet the 

requirement of the Planning Inspector. 

4.  In the event that a satisfactory Section 106 deed is not completed within six months of the 

date of the C ommittee meeting , delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate 

Change, Planning and Transport to refuse planning permission for failure to enter into a 

Section 106 deed providing for the obligations considered necessary to make the 

development acceptable in planning terms as identified in this report, addend a and/or the 

PAC minutes. CONTENTS 

Section no.  Section description 

1 Summary of application 

1.1  Executive summary 

1.2  Relevant designations 

1.3  Key information 

1.4  Summary of c onsultation 

2 Site context and proposal 

2.1  Site description 

2.2  Proposal description 

2.3  Relevant planning history 

3 Consultation and engagement 

3.1  Application consultation - public consultation 

3.2  Application consultation – external , internal and other consultees 

4 Application assessment 

4.1  Planning policie s

4.2  Main planning considerations 

4.3  Other planning considerations 

4.4  Planning obligations and CIL 

4.5  Equality duty and human rights 

4.6  Planning balance and conclusion 

4.7  Recommendations 

5 Appendices 

5.1  Draft Decision Notice 

5.2  List of main planning policies 

5.3  List of consultees 

5.4  Site photographs ↑ To contents 

# 1. Summary of application 

# Executive summary 

1.1.1  The application site contains a c hurch building (723sq.m) with residential space of (167sqm). 

Full planning permission is sought for the demolition of the existing buildings and the 

redevelopment of the site with a part 3 , part 5 storey building with basement providing 

community space (Use Class F2) and 20 residential flats (Use Class C3) . Of this, there 

would be 7 on -site affordable homes, with 5 being low -cost rented (Social Rent) and two 

being intermediate (London Shared Ownership) . This is a policy -comp liant amount of 

affordable housing, and overall, the housing provided by this development would be a 

significant public benefit. 

1.1.2  The proposed replacement community space would provide 550sq.m. of floorspace which is 

a 23% reduction from the existing community floor space (or 13.7% loss of the existing 

auditorium sp ace ). The proposed new space would be designed to the specification of the 

existing occupiers and has the potential to provide equ ivalent functionality. 

1.1.3  The development would respond to the positive aspects of its local context. All homes would 

be dual aspect (except for one single aspect one bedroom flat) and would have access to 

private amenity space. The area of communal amenity space and play space would exceed 

policy requirements .

1.1.4  The development would not have any unacceptable impacts on neighbouring amenity or the 

transport network. It would necessitate the removal of four category C trees which is 

regrettable, but the report sets out that this is required to optimise the site’s development 

potential and delivery of housing, including affordable housing. There would be new tree 

planting and landscaping, which would deliver urban greening and ecological enhancements 

(Urban Greening Factor of 0. 46 and Biodiversity Net Gain of 10.25 %).

1.1.5  In officers’ assessment , the application complies with the development plan when looked at 

overall. There are material considerations in favour of the scheme; namely the provision of 

20 new homes, which includes 7 affordable housing dwellings, with 5 of these being low -cost 

rented. No material considerations have been identified that weigh against the proposal. 

Officers are therefore recommending that the application is approved. 

# Relevant designations 

Type of designation  Applicable designation 

Town centre  Adjoining West Norwood District Centre 

Open Space Deficiency  Area of Open Space Deficiency at District 

and Regional Level. 

# Key information 

# 1.1.6 Site area 

Total site area (sqm)  Total site area (hectares(ha)) ↑ To contents 

1700  0.17 

# 1.1.7 Floorspace comparison 

Use description  Use class  Floorspace ( sqm )

(Gross Internal Area) 

Existing  Residential  Use Class C3  167 sq.m. 

Church with a community 

hall 

Use Class 

F1/ F2 

723 sq.m. 

Proposed  Residential flats  Use Class C3  16 ,049 sq.m 

Community space  Use Class F2  55 0 sq.m. 

Total 

proposed 

16,599 sq.m. 

# 1.1.8 Housing details 

Residential 

type 

No. of bedrooms per unit  Total 

habitable 

rooms 

Studio  1 2 3 4 Total 

Existing  Affordable  - - - - - -

Private /

Market 

- 1 - - - -

Total  - - - - -

Proposed  Low cost 

rented 

(Social Rent 

/ London 

Affordable 

Rent) 

- 2 2 1 - - 14 

Intermediate 

(London 

Shared 

Ownership) 

- - 1 1 - - 7

Private / 

Market 

- 3 8 2 - - 38 

Total  - 5 11  4 - - 20 

# 1.1.9 Affordable housing 

Percentage of affordable housing (based on habitable rooms)  35.6 %↑ To contents 

Percentage of affordable housing that is low cost rented 

(based on units) 

71 %

Percentage of affordable housing that is intermediate (based 

on units) 

29 %

# 1.1.10 Low cost rented housing mix 

1-bedroom units  2-bedroom units  3-bedroom+ units 

Lambeth Local 

Plan 2020 -2035 

(2021) Policy H4 

target 

Not more than 25%  25 -60%  Up to 30% 

Proposed  2 units 40 % 2 units 40 % 1 unit 20 %

# 1.1.11 Parking 

Car Parking 

Spaces 

(General) 

Car Parking 

Spaces 

(Blue Badge) 

%

EVCP  Bicycle Spaces 

Short stay  Long stay 

Existing  0 0 0 0

Proposed  0 0 38 

# 1.1.12 Environmental performance 

Policy target  Proposed 

Energy 

Percentage of on -site carbon 

savings beyond Part L of 

Building Regulations (2021) 

35%  Total  87 %

Residential  87 %

Non -

residential 

75 %

Percentage of on -site carbon 

savings achieved through 

energy efficiency measures 

Residential - 10% 

Non -residential - 15% 

Total  11 %

Residential  11%

Non -

residential 

15%

Off -site reduction (%) and/or 

carbon offset contribution 

Shortfall to net -zero 

carbon target 

£6,739 residential and 

£489 non -residential 

Unregulated carbon emissions  Major developments 

should calculate and 

minimise unregulated 

carbon emissions 

Information requested via 

a condition 

Sustainability 

BREEAM score  Excellent  72.29% 

Urban Greening Factor (UGF)  0.4  0.46 ↑ To contents 

Biodiversity Net Gain (BNG)  10%  10.25 %

# 1.1.13 Legal services clearance 

Name / 

position 

Lambeth 

department 

Date sent  Date 

received 

Report 

cleare d

Comments 

in para: 

Christopher 

Allingham –

Principal 

Property, 

Planning & 

Regeneration 

Lawyer 

Legal 

Services 

06.01.2026  13.01.2026  13.01.2026  Throughout 

document 

# Summary of c onsultation 

1.1.14  70 properties were consulted on the application. There were 10 responses in support of the 

application and 3 responses in objection. The applicant also provided a petition in support of 

the application signed by 59 people. ↑ To contents 

# 2. Site c ontext and proposal 

# Site description 

2.1.1  The application site (“the Site”) is located on the corner of Thornlaw Road and Knights Hill, 

opposite the Norwood Bus Garage. 

2.1.2  It is not within a town centre , though is immediately adjacent to the southern boundary of the 

West Norwood District Centre. It is identified as being an Area of Open Space Deficiency at 

District and Regional Level. 

2.1.3  The site currently comprises a community use space /place of worship known as Trinity 

Baptist Church (Use Class F1 /F2 ) together with an ancillary residential accommodation (167 

sq.m.) . Previous pre -application advice noted this as comprising approximately of 708sqm of 

floorspace, though considered that the entire site was dedicated as a church use, given that 

the outdoor areas surrounding the church hall provide space for congregation 

Figure 1 - The Site outlined in red ↑ To contents    

> Figure 2-Thornlaw Road existing entrance

# Proposal description 

2.1.4  Full planning permission is sought fo r the r edevelopment of the site involving the demolition 

of all existing buildings and erection of a part 3, 4 & part 5 storey building plus basement 

providing community space (Use Class F2) and 20 residential flats (Use Class C3), together 

with relocation of veh icular access to the Site from Thornlaw Road to Knights Hill, and 

parking, landscaping and other associated works. 

2.1.5  The proposed development would be 5 storeys (this includes the basement level) at the 

corner of Knights Hill and Thornlaw Road, it would drop down to 4 storeys along Knights Hill 

and to 3 storeys along Thornlaw Road. 

2.1.6  The proposed development would include 20 residential units, 7 of which would be affordable 

split to 5 social rent units and 3 shared ownership units. 

2.1.7  The submitted drawings and documents for the application can be found at 

https://planning.lambeth.gov.uk/online -applications  using the reference number: 

24/02054/FUL ↑ To contents 

Figure 3 - 3D aerial view of the proposed development 

Figure 4 - 3D aerial view of the proposed development 

# 2.1.8 Amendments 

2.1.8.1  The application as submitted included a lower ground floor level car park and new vehicular 

access of Knights Hill. This has been omitted from the application. 

2.1.8.2  The proposed lower ground floor would only have pedestrian access including access to the 

cycle parking store, as shown on the image below. No new vehicular access is now proposed 

of f Knights Hill. ↑ To contents 

Figure 5 - Proposed basement floor 

# Relevant planning history 

# 2.1.9 Application site 

2.1.9.1  The planning application history of the Site can be found at 

https://planning.lambeth.gov.uk/online -

applications/propertyDetails.do?activeTab=relatedCases&keyVal=002M9IBOLI000 ↑ To contents 

# 3. Consultation and engagement 

# Application consultation - public consultation 

3.1.1  Public consultation was undertaken in accordance with statutory and Council requirements. 

3.1.2  Letters were sent to a total of 70 properties surrounding the application site . A site notice was 

posted on 6 September 2024 , and a press notice was posted on 6 September 2024 .

3.1.3  The applicant revised the proposed plans during the course of the application , and a second 

public consultation was undertaken. Letters to 70 properties were sent on 14.11.2025 . A site 

notice was posted on 2.12.2025 and a press notice was posted on 17.11.2025. Public 

consultation ended on 23 December 2025 .

3.1.4  A total of 15 responses were received , comprising 10 supporting comments, 2 objections and 

3 comments neither objecting nor supporting. In addition, a petition signed by 59 people ,

provided by the applicant was received. These are summarised and responded to below: 

OBJECTING COMMENTS 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Design 

The design of the proposed development 

does not respect the existing character, 

appearance and scale of the buildings 

within the surrounding local area. 

This matter is discussed at section 4 and 

subsection Design of this report. 

The Conservation and Design officer 

reviewed the proposal and raised no 

objections. Officers consider the proposal 

would respond positively to the surrounding 

local context. The proposal is policy 

compliant. 

The additional set -back of the building on 

Thornlaw Road elevation is appreciated , but 

a further set -back for such a high building is 

needed ; and also more tree and shrub 

planting in the area at the front of the 

Thornlaw Road elevation. 

Transport 

A total of 3 disabled persons car parking 

spaces are provided (Traffic Assessment). 

This will impact significantly on the local 

area. Thornlaw Road already 

accommodates parking for a number of staff 

working from the Ernest Avene bus garage 

(who cannot all travel to / from work by 

public transport), as well as for local 

residents., bearing in mind that a large 

proportion of the building in Thornlaw Road 

are flats. 

This matter is discussed at section 4 under 

subsection Transport of this report. 

Subject to condition s and obligations the 

proposal is policy compliant. This includes a 

tr avel plan condition and an obligation to 

restrict parking permits, which would 

minimise impact on on -street parking. ↑ To contents 

Highways safety issues are raised due to 

the proposed crossover on Knights Hill. 

The applicant omitted the proposed new 

crossover from Knights Hill from the 

proposal following consultation with the 

Lambeth Transport team. 

Procedure 

Local residents have not been sent leaflets 

alerting them to the public consultation. I am 

not aware of any public meetings, with scale 

models etc. Surely this is required for such 

a significant development on this site. 

Public consultation has been undertaken in 

line with statutory requirements. This is 

noted in the section above. 

SUPPORTING COMMENTS 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

The proposed new community space would 

be better suited for the community. It would 

be a hub for residents to meet and socialise. 

This is noted. 

The proposal would contribute to a greener 

environment. 

This is noted. 

The proposal provides much needed 

housing 

This is noted. 

# Application consultation – external , internal and other consultees 

# 3.1.5 External consultees 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Metropolitan Police (Design Out Crime) 

The Designing out Crime Officer raised no 

objections subject to design out crime 

condition. 

Condition  10  is recommended. 

# 3.1.6 Internal consultees 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Arboricultural Officer 

The Arboricultural Officer raised no 

objections subject to conditions. 

All recommended conditions are included as 

follows :↑ To contents 

• Condition  14  - Integrated Arboricultural 

Method Statement (AMS) and Tree 

Protection Plan (TPP) 

• Condition  15  - Detailed Tree -Pit Design 

and Planting Infrastructure 

• Condition  16  - Landscape and Tree 

Planting Scheme 

• Condition  17  – tree replacement (ten 

year period) 

Biodiversity and Open space 

The Ecology officer raised no objections 

subject to conditions. 

All recommended conditions are included as 

follows :

• Condition  12  – Biodiversity Net Gain 

• Condition  16  - Landscape and Tree 

Planting Scheme 

Conservation and Urban Design 

The Conservation and Design Officer 

raised no objections subject to conditions. 

The Conservation and Design officer noted 

that t he resubmitted plans illustrate that the 

proposed vehicle crossover on Knights Hill 

has been omitted from plans. This is 

welcomed from a design perspective as 

this improves pedestrian safely, particularly 

those with limited mobility. 

Al l recommended conditions are included as 

follows :

• 7 – Detailed design 

• 8 – Schedule of materials and samples 

• 11  – external servicing equipment 

• 16  – landscaping 

• 22  – waste and recycling storage 

• 23  – Cycle storage 

Energy and Sustainability (Bl ew burton )

The sustainability consultant raised no 

objections subject to conditions. 

All recommended conditions are included as 

follows: 

• 4 – construction waste 

• 22  – operational waste, recycling 

target of 65% 

• 24  - BREEAM 

• 25  – Water consumption 

• 26  – Water use 

• 28  – revised Energy Statement 

• 29  – Overheating assessment 

Environmental Health ( EHS) 

The Environment Health Consultant raised 

no objections subject to conditions. 

All recommended conditions are included as 

follows: ↑ To contents 

• 3 – construction environment 

management plan (CEMP) 

• 6 – Ground contamination 

• 30  – Basement impact assessment 

• 31  – Air Quality 

• 32  – Noise from building services 

plant and equipment 

• 33  – Acoustic impact and noise 

assessments 

• 34  – Vibration attenuation and 

ventilation 

• 35  – Final verification report 

• 36  – noise levels from community use 

and building services 

• 37  – Amenity space noise levels 

• 38  – Hours of operation of the 

community use 

• 39  – Customer management plan 

• 40  – Delivery and servicing 

• 41  – External lighting 

Flood Risk 

The Flood Risk Officer raised no objections 

subject to conditions noting the increased 

surface flood risk on site. 

All recommended conditions are included: 

• 19  – Drainage and SuDS 

• 20  – Flood Risk Assessment 

• 21  – management and maintenance 

plan 

Planning Policy 

- The proposal would replace an 

existing church with a new 

community space . The 

replacement facilities would 

need to comply with LLP policy 

S1(ii). 

- New housing on site is 

supported (LLP Policy H1) 

- The site consist s of ancillary 

residentia l space of 167sq.m., 

policies H3 and H8 are relevan t.

- Low cost rented housing mix 

does not follow the policy 

threshold. However paragraph 

5.28 of the policy text under 

This is noted. ↑ To contents 

policy LLP policy H5 allows for 

flexibility. 

Transport 

The Transport Officer raised no objections 

following the removal of the proposed 

Knights Hill cross over. The Transport 

Officer recommended conditions and 

obligations in the event the application is 

approved. 

The recommended are as follows: 

- Ineligible for CPZ permits 

- £40,000 for the provision of up to 2 

disabled person's parking bays and 

EV chargers on the highway. 

- 3 years free membership of the Cycle 

Hire scheme for all residents 

- 3 year Car Club membership should 

be provided to all residents -

available from first occupation 

- Highway works completed prior to 

occupation 

All recommended conditions are included as 

follows: 

• 3 – construction environment 

management plan (CEMP) 

• 5 – non -road mobile machinery 

(NRMM) 

• 22  – waste and recycling storage 

• 23  – cycle storage 

• 40  – delivery and servicing 

• 42  – travel plan 

All recommended obligations and included in 

section  4.1.24  Planning Obligations .

Sunlight and daylight review Arup 

The sunlight and daylight consultant 

advised the applicant’s assessment is in 

line with the relevant guidance and agrees 

with the conclusions. 

This is noted. 

Waste Contractor 

The proposed waste strategy is acceptable.  This is noted .

# 3.1.7 Other consultees 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Cllr Jackie Meldrum 

16.11.2025 

1.An overall narrative in a Design & Access 

statement would enable a fuller/clearer 

understanding of the drawings. 

1.  Noted 

This Affordable housing matter is 

discussed at section Housing of this 

report. The applicant has proposed to 

provide 5 social rent units and 2 shared 

ownership units. The proposed tenure 

split is policy compliant and follows the ↑ To contents 

2.Policy H2. Affordable housing. The 

increase in social rented over shared 

ownership in the revised proposal is 

welcome d. Has the developer found a 

social housing landlord RSL willing to take 

on the 7 affordable flats? 

Without a standalone block RSLs are often 

reluctant to take on flats where the RSL 

has no control over block costs & service 

charges. Will this application have to follow 

the Viability Tested Route? 

3.Policy Q1 Disability 

Do the lifts provide level access to all flats 

in west and east sub -blocks ? 

In a development of 20 flats it should be 

possible to provide at least one disabled 

parking space - as in the original 

application? 

Access to the community venue does not 

seem suitable for some disabled people -

as any parking will be on a nearby hill. 

4.Policy T6 Transport & access 

This part of Knights Hill is very narrow 

where it joins the gyratory. It has extended 

zig zag lines from the zebra crossing. I 

remain concerned about the vehicle access 

arrangements and would like to see a full 

assessment response from Lambeth's 

traffic en gineers .

The revised proposal reduces vehicle 

access from Knights Hill but has not 

eliminated it. Access to the basement via 

Knights Hill appears to be needed for 

community hall events, cyclist parking and 

for refuse trucks collecting community use 

waste. And presu mably for any plant 

maintenance vehicles. Vehicles must not 

reverse onto Knights Hill. There can be no 

parking or loading outside the block on 

Knights Hill. 

Fast Track Route . A s106 deed would 

secure affordable housing to be provided 

on site. 

• The development would 

provide two accessible units 

at ground floor and condition 

9 would ensure that 

communal areas and access 

servicing these dwellings 

comply with Part M4(3) 

Wheelchair User Dwellings 

and all other communal 

spaces are compliant with 

Part M4(2). In relation to 

disabled parking spaces, two 

spaces will be provided off -

site and secured via s106 

deed . This is addressed at 

the transport subsection of 

this report under section 4. 

2.  The Transport Assessment is contained 

at the transport subsection under section 

4 of this report. The Transport Officer 

raised no concerns in relation to highway 

safety , subject to conditions and 

obligations including preventing future 

occupiers from obtaining parking permits 

in the event a Controlled Parking Zone is 

implemented. 

• The community facilities 

would be re -provided and 

the assessment is contained 

within subsection Principle of 

Land use under section 4. 

The final internal detailed 

layout and design are not 

available at this stage; 

however, officers consider 

the proposed space provides 

flexibility and is capable of 

providing good quality 

community floorspace with 

appropriate facilities .

3.  The cycle parking storage is located at 

lower ground floor level and this is 

considered acceptable and appropriate. ↑ To contents 

Is Thornlaw Road kerbside considered to 

be the main drop off/pick up point for the 

community venue and the residential 

block? 

Thornlaw Road appears to be the main 

residential entrance and access point to 

collect residents bins. Perhaps the 

development should fund yellow lines along 

this kerbside 

The West Norwood town centre CPZ is at 

the consultation phase. Will block residents 

be ineligible for resident parking permits in 

the future CPZ? 

And too many vehicles drive across Knights 

Hill into Thornlaw Rd from Ernest Ave. The 

traffic engineers have tried to devise a 

solution but are constrained by the tight 

turn for buses that also need to stop/wait at 

the St Julians Farm Rd bus stop. 

5. Loss of church is a loss in community 

facilities 

The proposed basement community venue 

needs toilets and at least a basic kitchen. 

These are essential and need to be 

incorporated into the proposals at this 

stage . 

6. Cycling 

Is there access to the cycle storage in the 

basement from the Knights Hill street and 

from inside the residential block ? 

7. Refuse 

Do the 4 residential bins have sufficient 

capacity for 20 households to separate 

their recycling, residual & food waste? 

Further details are secured via condition 

23 

4.  Th e waste storage details would be 

secured via condition  22 . The proposed 

plans shows an easily accessible refuse 

store at ground floor, which is capable of 

providing sufficient refuse storage. This 

is discussed at subsection Transport 

under section 4. ↑ To contents 

# 4. Application assessment 

# Planning policies 

4.1.1  Section 38(6) of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 requires planning 

decisions to be made in accordance with the development plan unless material 

considerations indicate otherwise. 

4.1.2  The development plan for the Site is the London Plan 2021 (‘LP’) and the Lambeth Local 

Plan 2021 (‘LLP’) .

4.1.3  The National Planning Policy Framework ( NPPF ) was last revised in 202 4. This document 

sets out the Government’s planning policies for England including the presumption in favour 

of sustainable development. It is a material consideration in the determination of all 

applications. 

4.1.4  The application has been considered against all relevant national policies and development 

plan policies, as well as any relevant guidance. A list of the main relevant policies and 

guidance has been set out in Appendix 2 to this report. 

4.1.5  The report addresses compliance with specific development plan policies. The planning 

balance section of the report sets out an assessment of whether, overall, there is compliance 

with the development plan. 

# Main planning considerations 

4.1.6  The main planning issues raised by the application that the Committee must consider are 

Principle of land use 

• Hou sing 

• Design 

• Strategic and local views 

• Sustainable design and construction 

• Amenity impact 

• Transport 

• Standard of accommodation 

• Trees, landscap ing and ecology 

# 4.1.7 Principle of land use 

Presumption in favour of sustainable development 

4.1.7.1  The NPPF sets the presumption in favour of sustainable development, and this is reflected in 

LLP Policy D2 and the other policies in the plan. LLP Policy D2 states that the Council will 

always work proactively with applicants jointly to find solutions which mean that proposals can 

be approved wherever possible and to secure development that improves the economic, 

social and environmental conditions in Lambeth. 

Making effective use of land 

4.1.7.2  Chapter 11 of the NPPF seeks to promote the effective use of land and para. 1 24 states: 

Planning policies and decisions should promote an effective use of land in meeting the 

need for homes and other uses, while safeguarding and improving the environment and ↑ To contents 

ensuring safe and healthy living conditions. Strategic policies should set out a clear 

strategy for accommodating objectively assessed needs, in a way that makes as much 

use as possible of previously developed or ‘brownfield’ land. 

4.1.7.3  This is carried forward in various policies in the LP . LP Policy GG2 seeks to enable 

development of brownfield land, among other areas, and prioritise sites which are well 

connected by public transport. 

Loss of existing use 

4.1.7.4  The Site comprises a building used as a place of worship and a community space , use class 

F1/F2 (7 23 sqm) and one ancillary residential unit (167sqm ) and surrounding open spaces 

which would be redeveloped as part of the proposal. 

Community space 

4.1.7.5  The LLP recognises places of worship as Social Infrastructure (para 7.1). LLP S1 states that 

existing community premises, and land formerly in use as community premises, will be 

safeguarded unless it can be demonstrated that either: 

(i)  there is no existing or future need or demand for such uses, including reuse for other 

community services locally, and adequate alternative accommodation is available to 

meet the needs of the area; or replacement facilities are proposed on or off site of 

equivalent or better functionality to serve the needs of the area; or 

(ii)  development of the site/premises for other uses, or with the inclusion of other uses, will 

enable the delivery of approved strategies for service improvements. 

4.1.7.6  The supporting text (Para 7.8 of the LLP ) states that the functionality of any replacement 

facilities must be equivalent to or better than that of the existing provision. Any application is 

expected to provide an assessment of the existing provision (including factors such as size, 

quality of ac commodation, facilities, accessibility, usage, and potential for flexible use, 

including outdoor areas) and demonstrate how the proposed replacement accommodation 

will include equivalent or better provision. A smalle r quantity of floorspace may be acceptable 

where it is demonstrated that the new accommodation can be used more effectively and has 

better functionality. 

4.1.7.7  The proposal would deliver replacement facilities in accordance with criteria ii of th e above 

policy. The planning statement indicates that this would be a new purpose built F2 community 

use (723sqm ). The proposed facility would be 555 sqm. Th e proposal would result in a total 

reduction of 1 68 sqm community use space or 23% of the existing space .

4.1.7.8  The existing main auditorium area with the supporting space to the rear and toilets is 

475.23sq.m in floor area . (as noted on the submitted existing plans); and the proposed new 

hall with supporting spaces is 410sq.m.; resulting in a loss of 65sq.m. or 13. 7% of the existing 

space. 

4.1.7.9  Officers acknowledge the loss in quantum of floor spac e and consider that this is not 

significant to warrant the refusal of the application, nothing that t he proposed development 

would re -provide a purpose built -community space, designed specifically for the same 

operator “The Trinity Baptist Church” ; the space would be optimised for the needs of the 

operator , which can offer flexibility and efficiency in its layout . The new building also allows for 

modern facilities and improved accessibility, which would enhance the overall quality of the ↑ To contents 

community services provided. While the detailed interior design is still under construction, the 

new space is expected to offer improved quality . The proposed floor space and layout has the 

potential to provide good quality community use space. On balance, the proposal is 

considered acceptable. 

Residential floorspace 

4.1.7.10  The proposed development of the site result s in the loss of one residential unit of 167sqm ,

however this is considered to be an ancillary use . This would be replaced by 20 units, 7 of 

which would be affordable. 

4.1.7.11  LLP H1 seeks to maximise the supply of additional homes in the borough, this includes 

encouraging development on appropriate windfall sites not identified in the development plan. 

The proposal would deliver new residential development, therefore housing is su pported in 

principle by this policy, subject to requirements of LLP Policy S1 being satisfied. 

Proposed use 

Housing 

4.1.7.12  LP Policy H1 sets out the Mayor’s approach to increasing housing supply, with a particular 

focus on accessible brownfield sites. A target of 13,350 new homes over a ten -year period 

(Table 4.1 of the LP) is proposed within Lambeth. 

4.1.7.13  LLP Policy H1 seeks to maximise the supply o f additional homes in the borough to meet and 

exceed Lambeth’s housing requirement for the ten -year period. This would be achieved by :

i.  Seeking to optimise potential for housing delivery on all suitable and available brownfield 

sites ;

ii.  Supporting development proposals that provide a mix of housing sizes, types, tenures to 

meet current and future housing need and accord with applicable policies set out in the 

development plan ;

iii.  Seeking to optimise levels of residential density in accordance with the design led 

approach set out in LP Policy D1 B ;

iv.  Encouraging development on appropriate windfall sites not identified in the development 

plan. 

4.1.7.14  The proposal would provide 20 new homes that would go towards meeting Lambeth’s 

housing requirements. In respect of housing types, affordable housing and tenure mix etc. 

this is discussed in the ‘Housing’ section of the report below ; increasing residential density 

through the design led approach that seeks to optimise density through good design , is 

discussed in the ‘Design’ section of the report below. 

4.1.7.15  The principle of residential development is supported in this location subject to the proposal 

meeting all other applicable policies set out in the development plan, which are discussed 

below. 

Summary 

4.1.7.16  On balance, officers consider the loss of the 168 sqm (or 23%) of the existing community 

space is acceptable given that (1) new purpose -built replacement facilities are provided, ↑ To contents 

which have the potential to offer equivalent functionality and (2) the proposal would deliver 

housing, including affordable housing. 

# 4.1.8 Housing 

Affordable housing and tenure mix 

4.1.8.1  The beginning of the Agenda pack explains the policy context for affordable housing 

considerations. For this application, the threshold level of affordable housing is 35 per cent of 

gross residential development on habitable rooms, as per LP Policy H5. 

4.1.8.2  LLP Policy H2 sets out the required tenure mix of affordable housing, based on units. This is 

explained further at the beginning of the Agenda pack. 

4.1.8.3  The development would provide 7 affordable housing units (or 21 habitable rooms) which 

equates to 35.6% affordable housing. The tenure split would be 5 social rent units and 2 

shared ownership units. The application has followed the Fast Track Route .

Rent levels and affordability 

4.1.8.4  LP Policy H6, the Mayor’s Affordable Housing and Viability SPG and the Mayor’s Affordable 

Homes Programme 2021 -2026 set out the Mayor’s preferred affordable housing products. 

4.1.8.5  The low -cost rent element would be let at target rents in line with the Council’s Tenancy 

Strategy. 

4.1.8.6  The intermediate element would be London Shared Ownership. 

Review mechanism 

4.1.8.7  LP Policy H5 part E states that Fast Tracked applications are not required to provide a 

viability assessment at application stage. To ensure an applicant fully intends to build out the 

permission, the London Plan requires an Early -Stage Viability Review, to be triggered if an 

agreed level of progress on implementation is not made within two years of the permission 

being granted (or a period agreed by the borough). This would be secured via s106 deed .

Dwelling mix 

4.1.8.8  The proposed development would provide a balance mix of units in line with LLP Policy H4, 

the sections below look at low -cost rent and intermediate and market units. 

Low -cost rent 

4.1.8.9  LLP Policy H4 sets a preferred borough -wide housing mix for the low cost rented element. As 

set out in the table below and at Section 1 of this report , the proposal would comply with 

policy. 

Type of dwelling  No. of units  Percentage  Policy threshold 

One bedroom  2 40%  No more than 25% 

Two bedrooms  2 40%  25 -60% 

Three or bedrooms  1 20%  Up to 30% 

Total  5↑ To contents 

4.1.8.10  While the dwelling mix is not in line with LLP policy H4, paragraph 5.28 states that ‘while 

developments are expected to reflect the preferred dwelling mix set out above, rigid 

application of these requirements may not be appropriate in all cases. When considering the 

mix of dwelling sizes appropriate to a development, the council will hav e regard to individual 

site circumstances including location, site constraints, viability and the achievement of mixed 

and balanced communities. In all cases proposals wil l be expected to demonstrate that the 

provision of family -sized units has been considered.” 

4.1.8.11  The proposal would provide all low -cost rented units at ground floor level and the applicant 

has advised that “The split of affordable tenures has taken a practical approach with all social 

rented tenures located at ground floor level allowing for a straightforward arrangement for 

management fees and future maintenance. ” Officers note that family sized unit is provided 

and that the development is of small scale providing only 5 social rented units on site; in line 

with paragraph 5.28 Officers consider the p roposed unit mix is acceptable. 

Intermediate and market 

4.1.8.12  For intermediate and market housing, LLP Policy H4 seeks a balance d mix of unit sizes, 

including family -sized accommodation. When considering the mix of dwelling sizes 

appropriate to a development, the Council will have regard to individual site circumstances 

including location, site constraints, viability, and the achievement of mixed and balanced 

communities. In all cases, proposals will be expected to demonstrate that the provision of 

family -sized units has been considered. 

4.1.8.13  The mix of intermediate and market housing is shown in the tables at Section 1 of this report 

and provided below. Officers consider the mix to comply with policy .

Type of dwelling  No. of units  Percentage 

One bedroom  3 20% 

Two bedrooms  9 60% 

Three + bedrooms  3 20% 

Total  15 

Affordable housing, tenure and mix conclusion 

4.1.8.14  Overall, subject to securing planning obligations as listed above, officers consider that the 

proposal meets the requirements of LP Policies H4, H5, H6 and LLP Policies H2 and H4 . It 

would provide 7 affordable housing units (21 habitable rooms) which equates to 35.6% 

affordable housing. The tenure split would be 5 social rent units and 2 shared ownership units 

# 4.1.9 Design 

4.1.9.1  Design -based policies include many site -specific considerations, but in general, seek to 

ensure development responds to the positive aspects of its local context , has a bulk, 

scale/mass, siting, building line and orientation which adequately preserves or enhances the 

prevailing local character , and has a design quality which is visually interesting and well 

detailed. ↑ To contents 

Scale and massing 

4.1.9.2  The application proposes a part -3, 4, and part -5 storey building fronting the intersection of 

Thornlaw Road and Knights Hill. The Site slopes gently westward along Thornlaw Road. The 

surrounding area features varied uses and architectural styles, generally characterised by low 

to mid -rise buildings, with taller structures along the main road and two -storey terraces on 

side streets. There are no objections to the proposed height and scale; the taller element 

appropriately addresses the intersection, while th e form of the three -storey massing along 

Thornlaw Road responds positively to the local context.    

> Figure 6-Proposed elevation facing Thornlaw Road

Local distinctiveness and appearance 

4.1.9.3  The intersection is defined by a varied mix of low to mid -rise buildings serving different uses, 

with elevations typically constructed in red or brown brick or composite panels. The proposed 

development introduces a contemporary design, incorporating brown brick facade with a red 

brick detailing and patterned fenestration, to the part four and part five storey element of the 

development, with a buff brick proposed to the three -storey massing fronting Thornlaw Road, 

which responds appropriately to the surrou nding context. It is noted that the three -storey 

building presents a more modest appearance, in comparison to the frontage building. 

Summary 

4.1.9.4  The proposed development would be appropriate for the site in terms of scale and massing, 

the proposed materials would be a positive response to the local context. The proposed 

development is considered acceptable in design terms, subject to conditions. 

# 4.1.10 Heritage impact 

Approach to heritage consideration s

4.1.10.1  The beginning of the Agenda Pack sets out the legislative background and the national and 

borough level policy context . Reference should be made to those materials. 

4.1.10.2  The first step is to identify the nature and extent of any harm to the significance of any 

designated heritage assets. This will be a matter for the planning judgement of the decision -

maker, looking at the facts of the application and taking into account the importance of the 

asset in question. Minimal harm to the value of a designated heritage asset should still be 

placed within the category of less than substantial harm. When assessing any application 

which may affect the setting of a heritage asset, the impact of cumulative change may need 

to be considered. ↑ To contents 

4.1.10.3  Clear and convincing justification is required by NPPF paragraph 2 13 for any harm to the 

significance of a designated heritage asset. The second step is therefore to balance that 

harm against the public benefits of the scheme, applying the requirements of NPPF 

paragraph 2 15 in the case of less than substantial harm , or NPPF paragraph 2 14 in the case 

of substantial harm (or total loss of significance) .

4.1.10.4  A public benefit can be anything that delivers economic, social or environmental objectives, 

which are the three overarching objectives of the planning system as set out in the NPPF. 

The Planning Practice Guidance (PPG) advises that “ public benefits should flow from the 

proposed development. They should be of a nature or scale to be of benefit to the public at 

large and not just be a private benefit. However, benefits do not always have to be visible or 

accessible to the public in orde r to be genuine public benefits, for example, works to a listed 

private dwelling which secure its future as a designated heritage asset could be a public 

benefit ”. The degree of weight to attach to any particular public benefit is a matter for the 

decision -maker. 

4.1.10.5  Public benefits can include heritage benefits. If heritage harm and heritage benefit arise in 

relat ion to the same asset, the decision -maker should consider whether the benefit would 

prevent the harm from arising and , if it would, avoid double -counting the heritage benefit 

when identifying the public benefits. If there is harm to one asset but a heritage benefit to a 

different asset, the heritage benefit accruing to one should not be treated as meaning that 

there is no heritage harm to the other .

4.1.10.6  Importantly, the balancing exercises required by NPPF paragraph 2 14 and 2 15 are not simple 

unweighted exercises in which the decision -maker is free to give heritage harm whatever 

degree of weight they wish. In Barnwell Manor the Court of Appeal identified that the 

decision -maker needed to give “considerable importance and weight” to any finding of likely 

harm to a listed building or its setting in order properly to perform the section 66 duty. 

Sections 66 and 72 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conserv ation Areas) Act 1990 

amount to a statutory presumption against development that would harm the significance of a 

listed building or a conservation area. The presumption can be outweighed, but only if there 

are material considerations (which will include a proposal’s public benefits) that are strong 

enough to do so. 

4.1.10.7  The decision -maker needs to ensure that they give considerable importance and weight to 

harm to the significance of a designated heritage asset, and ensure that the more important 

the asset, the more the weight that is given to the harm in the balancing exercise . Where the 

significance of more than one designated heritage asset would be harmed by the proposed 

development, the decision -maker needs to account for each individual harm and identify ,

overall, the resulting degree of less than substantial harm or substantial harm. 

4.1.10.8  The assessment of the nature and extent of harm to the significance of a non -designated 

heritage asset is a matter for the planning judgement of the decision -maker, looking at the 

facts of the application and considering the importance of the asset in question. NPPF 

paragraph 2 16 does not prescribe how the balanced judgement required should be 

undertaken, or what weight should be given to any particular matter. 

Assessment of heritage impact 

4.1.10.9  The impact of the proposed development has been assessed against the following heritage 

assets :↑ To contents 

Listed buildings 

4 and 6 Thornlaw Road 

4.1.10.10  4 and 6 Thornlaw Road are located approximately 47m away from the Site. The views from 

listed buildings to the application site is obscured by the development at 4A Thornlaw 

Road/ 36 Cheviot gardens. The proposal would have no impact on the setting of the listed 

buildings.    

> Figure 7-Heritage assets map

Summary 

4.1.10.11  In officers’ assessment no harm to the significance of any heritage assets has been identified, 

meaning that the proposal complies with the heritage policies of the development plan .

# 4.1.11 Sustainable design and construction 

4.1.11.1  Strategic and local policies require development to demonstrate how it would minimise its 

impact on the environment , including through its construction and end -use. 

Energy strategy 

4.1.11.2  LP Policy SI 2 states that major developments should be net -zero carbon. This means 

reducing greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the following energy hierarchy: 

• Be Lean: use less energy and manage demand during operation 

• Be Clean: exploit local energy resources (such as secondary heat) and supply energy 

efficiently and cleanly .

• Be Green: maximise opportunities for renewable energy by producing, storing and using 

renewable energy on -site .

• Be Seen: monitor, verify and report on energy performance .↑ To contents 

4.1.11.3  The submitted Energy Strategy indicates that the proposed development will achieve 87% 

reduction in residential emissions and 75% reduction in non -residential emissions. Th is 

includes a 15 percent (for residential) and 10 per cent (for the non -residential) reduction 

energy efficiency measures at the Be Lean Stage, which meets the 10/ 15 per cent 

requirement under the LP. 

4.1.11.4  The proposed Be Lean energy efficiency measures include good fabric performance meeting 

Building regulations. 

4.1.11.5  The Be Clean Stage : communal heating is proposed for the dwellings, noting th at there is no 

existing heat network to connect to. 

4.1.11.6  The Be Green Stag e include renewable technologies such as Solar Photovoltaic Array (PV 

panels) and Air source heat pumps (ASHPs). 

4.1.11.7  The Be Seen Stage requires the development to monitor and report to the GLA on the energy 

performance of the development as -built and in the in -use phase for every year following 

occupation of the development for at least the first five years. This is secured by Condition 

28 

4.1.11.8  The proposed development surpasses the required minimum 35 per cent reduction in CO2 

emissions on -site . To confirm that the suggested performance will be achieved , condition  28 

is included requiring confirmation that the development has been bu ilt in accordance with the 

approved Energy Strategy. 

4.1.11.9  In order to achieve the ‘zero carbon’ requirement, the remaining regulated carbon dioxide 

emissions are proposed to be off -set through a cash in lieu contribution of £6,739 residential 

and £489 non -residential (noting that as buil t calculations will be required to confirm the final 

amount required) to be ring fenced to secure delivery of carbon dioxide savings elsewhere. 

This would be secured within a S106 deed .

4.1.11.10  In respect of unregulated emissions, a condition is recommended for these to be calculated 

and minimised, see Condition  28 . This would ensure compliance with LP Policy SI 2. 

Sustainable construction 

4.1.11.11  LLP Policy EN4 states that development proposals should demonstrate in a supporting 

statement that sustainable design standards are integral to the design, construction and 

operation of the development. 

4.1.11.12  LLP Policy EN4 requires all new non -residential development to meet at least BREEAM 

‘Excellent’. A BREEAM Pre -Assessment within the Sustainability Statement has been 

prepared and submitted with the application in accordance with L LP Policy EN4 .

4.1.11.13  The Sustainability Statement commits to achieving an Excellent BREEAM Rating for the 

proposed development, noting that it could achieve a BREEAM score of approximately 72.29 

per cent (whereby the BREEAM ‘Excellent’ target score is 70 per cent ). The assessment is 

carried out for the proposed development to shell only . A condition is therefore included 

requiring a minimum final certificated rating of Excellent to be achieved for shell and core .

Subject to this , the proposed development would comply with the r elevant policies .

4.1.11.14  The development has demonstrated there is no available central heat network to connect and 

the proposal would be future proved to facilitate a connection should a heat network become ↑ To contents 

available The applicant’s energy statement has advised that a dedicated position will be 

safeguarded for new incoming district heating mains, which could directly replace the 

landlord’s centralised air source heat pumps as the primary heat source. This secured via 

condition  27 .

Overheating mitigation 

4.1.11.15  LP Policy SI 4 states that major development proposals should demonstrate how they will 

reduce the potential for internal overheating and reliance on air conditioning systems in 

accordance with a hierarchy that prioritises passive measures overactive measures. LLP 

Policy EN4 requires development to be resilient to climate change by including appropriate 

climate change adaptation measures. 

4.1.11.16  The applicant provided an overheating assessment and Condition  29  has been included to 

ensure that the risk of overheating has been minimised in line with the GLA’s cooling 

hierarchy. 

Water efficiency 

4.1.11.17  LP Policy SI 5 states that through the use of planning conditions, developments should 

minimise the use of mains water. LLP Policy EN6 seeks to minimise water consumption and 

incorporate water re -use systems where practical. 

4.1.11.18  Conditions  25  and  26  would ensu re the development would minimise water use .

Waste and the circular economy 

4.1.11.19  LP P olic y SI 7 requires all developments referable to the Mayor of London to provide a

Circular Economy Statement (CES). LP Policy D3 requires development proposals to 

integrate circular economy principles as part of the design process. LLP Policy EN7 supports 

the circular economy principles and the approach to driving waste management up the waste 

hierarchy in accordance with national and regional policy and targets, and in particular , the 

efficient use of resources, the reuse of materials and resources, composting , and the 

recovery of energy fro m materials. 

4.1.11.20  The application does not require referral to the Mayor, and therefore, a CE S is not required by 

policy. 

Demolition and c onstruction waste 

4.1.11.21  LP Policy SI 7 and LLP Policy EN7 require that at least 95 per cent of construction and 

demolition waste should be reused, recycled or recovered and at least 95 per cent of 

excavation waste should be put to beneficial use. Disposal of construction, demolition and 

excavation (CD&E) waste in landfill should only take place where it has been demonstrated 

that alternative, more sustainable fates are not feasible. Condition  4 is recommended to 

secure details of how the proposal will comply with this requirement. 

Operational phase 

4.1.11.22  For waste generated by the ongoing use of the development, LP Policy SI 7 sets a recycling 

target of 65 per cent. The submitted operational waste strategy commits to this target and an 

updated waste management plan is required by Condition  22 , setting out in detail how waste 

and recycling would be managed. 

4.1.11.23  The proposal complies with LP Policy SI 7 and LLP Policy EN7 subject to the aforementioned 

conditions. ↑ To contents 

# 4.1.12 Amenity impact 

4.1.12.1  LLP Policy Q2 requires development to protect the amenity of existing/future occupants, 

neighbours and the visual amenity of the community of a whole. 

Daylight, sunlight and overshadowing 

4.1.12.2  The PPG includes guidance on making effective use of land, including planning for higher 

density development. The PPG states : “Where a planning application is submitted, local 

planning authorities will need to consider whether the proposed development would have an 

unreasonable impact on the daylight and sunlight levels enjoyed by neighbouring occupiers ”.

4.1.12.3  The PPG also acknowledges that wider planning considerations are relevant in considering 

appropriate levels of daylight and sunlight. Th e guidance notes that all developments should 

maintain acceptable living standards. However, th e guidance also notes that assessing what 

are appropriate levels of sunlight and daylight will depend to some extent on the context of 

the development as well as its detailed design . L ower daylight and sunlight levels at some 

windows may be unavoidable if new developments are to b e in keeping with the general form 

of their surroundings. In such situations good design will be necessary to help make the best 

use of the site and maintain acceptable living standards. 

4.1.12.4  In this respect, paragraph 1 30 (c) of the NPPF states: “local planning authorities should refuse 

applications which they consider fail to make efficient use of land, taking into account the 

policies in this Framework. In this context, when considering applications for housing, 

authorities should take a flexibl e approach in applying policies or guidance relating to daylight 

and sunlight, where they would otherwise inhibit making efficient use of a site (as long as the 

resulting scheme would provide acceptable living standards).” 

4.1.12.5  LLP Policy Q2 states that development will be supported if: (iv) it would not have an 

unacceptable impact on levels of daylight and sunlight on the host building or adjoining 

property including their gardens or outdoor spaces. Paragraph 10.2 of the LLP sta tes 

“Sustainable development should protect the amenity of existing/future occupants, 

neighbours and the visual amenity of the community as a whole .”

4.1.12.6  The beginning of the Agenda Pack a contains broad contextual overview of the assessment 

framework within which sunlight and daylight studies are undertaken and the application of 

the Building Research Establishment (‘BRE’) Guidelines . This includes an explanation of the 

key terms and targets contained within the BRE Guid elines. The following assessment has 

been made in the context of this information. 

4.1.12.7  A Daylight and Sunlight Report (dated June 2025 ) prepared by T16 Design was submitted in 

sup port of the proposal. Officers consider that the methodology and scope of the Report is 

acceptable. 

4.1.12.8  The Report provides an assessment of the daylight and sunlight impacts on neighbouring 

properties and overshadowing impacts on neighbouring open space areas. The Report has 

been reviewed by Arup , a daylight / sunlight consultant appointed by the Council, whose 

comments are incorporated into this section of the PAC report. 

4.1.12.9  The assessment includes both residential and commercial properties nearby the site, 

including the following :

• 1 Thornlaw Road 

• 2A Thornlaw Road ↑ To contents 

• 100 Knights Hill 

• 126 Knights Hill 

Figure 8 - application site and surrounding properties 

4.1.12.10  The sensitive receptors for overshadowing within the study area are listed below: 

• 1 Thornlaw Road with garden G4 

• 2A, 2B, 2C Thornlaw Road with gardens G1, G2, and G4 

Figure 9 - location of neighbouring gardens 

Daylight impacts 

4.1.12.11  The sunlight report shows that 55 out of 59 tested windows would meet the BRE guidelines. ↑ To contents 

4.1.12.12  The windows which have relative impacts beyond the normal BRE guidance (windows 30 -32 

and 36, highlighted on the image below) have existing balconies above them and which 

restrict their view of the sky. Arup , in their report, agreed that the losses experienced by these 

windows are justified by the existing balconies. 

Figure 10 - 126 Knights Hill daylight impacts 

Sunlight impacts 

4.1.12.13  The results show that all of the assessed windows retain 80% of existing level of sunlight ,

both annually and over the winter months. The scheme is therefore compliant with BRE 

guidance in relation to sunlight impacts. 

Overshadowing impacts 

4.1.12.14  The neighbouring gardens retain well in excess of 80% of their existing values and the 

scheme is therefore compliant with BRE guidance. 

Summary of daylight, sunlight and overshadowing impacts 

4.1.12.15  Generally, the daylight and sunlight results demonstrate that the proposed development will 

generally perform well against the BRE recommendations. Arup have advised that the 

applicant has followed BR 209 methodology, and the assessment conclusions are agreeable. 

4.1.12.16  The impacts of the proposed development are considered acceptable nothing the urban 

context of the surrounding area. ↑ To contents 

Outlook and privacy 

4.1.12.17  The scale of development and the separation distances would ensure there is no 

unacceptable impact on outlook . The proposed development is three storeys to the north and 

separated by approx imately 10m from 2A Thornlaw Road ; and it is part 4 part 5 storeys to the 

south , and separated by approximately 20m from 126 -128 Knights Hill .

4.1.12.18  BRE advises that complete privacy is only achieved at distances of 90m or more. BRE further 

advises that recommended privacy distances are usually less than this and vary between 

18m to 35m. The proposed building would be located approx. 20 -23m away from the flank of 

the neighbouring residential building at 126 -128 Knights Hill. The proposed development 

would retain appropriate privacy levels of the neighbouring property. 

4.1.12.19  The property at 2A Thornlaw Road has no flank windows and there would be no direct 

overlooking to this property. The rear gardens of 2A, 2B and 2C Thornlaw Road are already 

overlooked by the residential building 126 -128 Knights Hill and the proposed development 

would not significantly increase the level of overlooking, it is also noted that any views would 

be at an angle and there would not be any direct overlooking. 

Noise 

Noise from building services plant and equipment 

4.1.12.20  The Noise Assessment prepared by Anderson Acoustics has not proposed noise targets 

limits for building services plant. The Noise Assessment notes some plant will be located on 

the roof. No other details of plant or flue layouts are provided at this point a nd therefore 

conditions  32  33  34  35  and  36  are proposed to ensure that noise from building services plant 

and flues are controlled. 

Environmental noise 

4.1.12.21  The development site is located close to Norwood bus garage and other commercial uses. 

The Noise Assessment has identified potentially adverse noise impacts that may affect the 

proposed dwellings. 

4.1.12.22  As stated in the Noise Assessment, exposure to adverse levels of environmental noise in the 

residential dwellings is to be controlled through provision of glazing treatments and a 

mechanical heating and ventilation system. The Environmental Health consultant advised that 

measures are also required to prevent overheating conditions , as noted above condition  29 

has been included to ensure that the risk of overheating has been minimised in line with the 

GLA’s cooling hierarchy. 

4.1.12.23  Condition s 29 , 33 , 34  and  35  are therefore proposed to ensure that an appropriate scheme of 

acoustic mitigation, ventilation and cooling is implemented. 

Operational noise – community use 

4.1.12.24  The development proposes to locate dwellings immediately above the proposed community 

use on the lower ground floor. To safeguard the amenity of future occupiers, noise and 

disturbance from the community use will need to be controlled. A sound insulation t reatment 

designed to acoustically isolate the community premises from the dwellings is required. 

Condition  36  is proposed to ensure a suitable scheme is implemented. ↑ To contents 

4.1.12.25  Noise from the patrons using the community hall may be a source of disturbance to residents 

living directly above it. Hours of operation are secured via condition  38  to limit the potential 

conflicts between the operation of the community use and the residential occupiers above. 

Summary 

4.1.12.26  The development would have a minor impact on neighbouring amenity due to the increased 

plot coverage and massing. However, these impacts would be within acceptable limits and as 

such, the application complies with LP Policy D14, and LLP Policy Q2. 

# 4.1.13 Transport 

4.1.13.1  Development plan policies seek to ensure that the impacts of development on the transport 

network are fully assessed and promote sustainable modes of travel. Paragraph 11 6 of the 

NPPF states that “development should only be prevented or refused on highways grounds if 

there would be an unacceptable impact on highway safety, or the residual cumulative impacts 

on the road network would be severe , taking into account all reasonable future scenarios .” 

Site context 

4.1.13.2  Transport Accessibility Level (PTAL) is a measure which rates locations by distance from 

public transport services. The proposed development site has a PTAL score of 5, which is 

considered very good on a scale of 0 -6, where 0 is considered very poor and 6a /b is 

classified as excellent. Resultantly people residing at the proposed development site benefit 

from excellent access to local public/passenger transport services. 

4.1.13.3  The site is not located within a Controlled parking zone (CPZ) and car parking is unrestricted. 

The Council has a programme to consult on CPZ across the whole borough by 2025/2026 .

Paragraph 8.34 of the Local Plan states “Developers will be expected to provide, or contribute 

towards, measures that prevent this from happening, including contributions towards the 

introduction of parking controls (see Annex 9)…”. Annex 9 applies a charge of £2,500 per 

residential unit for areas where there is not currently a CPZ but where demand for parking is 

anticipated will not be met with a development site. The development is proposed as car free 

and there would be no onsite car parking to meet the potential demand. Therefore, a financi al 

contribution of £50,000 would be recured towards the management, consultation and 

implementation of a C PZ; and car parking permits would be restricted in case a future CPZ is 

implemented via a s106 deed .

Access 

4.1.13.4  Pedestrian access would be provided from Thornlaw Road and will enable mobility by all 

users, including those using pushchairs and the mobility impaired. The existing vehicle 

access to the Site from Thornlaw Road would be closed and reinstated as footway, this 

should be secured by S278 Agreement. 

4.1.13.5  The application was revised to remove the originally proposed access from Knights Hill. 

Trip generation 

4.1.13.6  The Transport Officer noted that p aragraph 7.7 of the Planning Statement indicates that the 

use/occupier would remain as existing. Elsewhere it is noted that there would be a reduction 

in the overall floorspace for the community use. Therefore, the community use element is 

unlikely to re sult in additional significant or adverse transport impacts over the existing use. 

No additional information on the use is required. ↑ To contents 

Car parking and car club membership 

4.1.13.7  The development has omitted any car parking as original proposed. The Transport officer 

advised that meet London Plan requirements for 10% of dwellings to have access to 

accessible parking provision; 10% would equate to 2 spaces. This would be secured off site 

via a s106 deed .

4.1.13.8  There is good Car Club coverage across Lambeth and the Council is aiming for Car Club 

bays within 400m of each other, to ensure convenient provision for all Lambeth residents. 

LLP Para. 8.35 states: Car clubs and pool car schemes are shared pools of cars available 

locally for short term hire and are a convenient alternative to car ownership. They allow for 

occasional car use but discourage unnecessary car journeys. Car Clubs are required where 

appropriate, preferably on -street to facilitate ease of public u se. Car Clubs and pool car 

schemes will also be promoted as an alternative to car parking and individual car ownership. 

4.1.13.9  Provision of Car Club membership will be required for all residents from first occupation of a 

development scheme. This would be secured by a Section 106 deed requiring a (three year) 

Car Club membership to be provided to all residents and available from first occupation. 

Cycle parking 

4.1.13.10  Cycle storage is proposed on the lower ground floor, accessible via Knights Hill. Residents 

would enter through the main gate, pass through the building entrance and a corridor, before 

reaching the storage area. Ideally, for convenience and accessibility, the cycle storage could 

be positioned closer to the entrance to allow direct street access. 

4.1.13.11  The proposed cycle storage for the community use includes 4 Sheffield stand spaces at the 

Community Use entrance on Knight's Hill. The Transport Officer noted that the LP requires 1 

short -stay space for every 100m2 floorspace (555m2 = 6 spaces in total); therefore 2 

additional spaces are required. This would be secured via condition  23 .

4.1.13.12  The residential cycle storage requires 38 cycle space; The proposal would provide 18 

Sheffield stand spaces; 2 enlarged spaces; 18 two -tier spaces and 2 short stay spaces at 

main residential entrance. The number, type, location, access routes, and layout o f spaces 

are acceptable . Further details would be required via condition  23 .

Cycle hire membership 

4.1.13.13  A minimum of three years free membership of the Cycle Hire scheme for all residents 

regardless of tenure, is secured via s106 deed in line with LLP Policy T3 

Travel plan 

4.1.13.14  A travel plan is secured via condition  42 .

Deliveries and servicing 

4.1.13.15  A servicing and delivery plan is secured via condition  40 . This would ensure any servicing 

does not cause impacts on the local highway. 

4.1.13.16  Residential refuse and recycling storage is proposed on the ground floor, east of the 

Thornlaw Road entrance. The Lambeth waste and recycling storage collection requirements 

(March 2023) provides a formula for calculating the t otal weekly waste arising from residential 

development with communal refuse facilities. F or the proposed development this equals to a 

total waste volume of 3330L , 50% of which would need to be for general waste and 50% for 

recycling. In addition , 200 L of food waste is required for the development of 20 units . Noting 

that wheeled Eurobins generally 660 litre or 1100 litre for refuse and recycling and 240L bins ↑ To contents 

for food waste ; officers consider the proposed refuse store provides sufficient space for the 

required general, recycling and food waste. The waste management company Serco raised 

no objection s, and final details would be secured via condition  22 .

Construction management 

4.1.13.17  The applicant submitted a draft method of construction plan, which is welcomed. Officers note 

that construction impacts could unreasonably impact the amenity of nearby residential 

properties. On this basis a finalised construction management plan would be secured by 

condition to outline the build duration, programme, numbers of construction vehicle 

movements and a commentary of how the site will be built out and impact on the operation of 

the highway. The applicant has agreed to a condition which controls t he construction works in 

terms of noise, dust, hours of works, vehicle movements, etc. to ensure the impact on 

neighbours is kept to a minimum. It is officers view that this ground of concern can be dealt 

with appropriately through conditions  3, 4 and  5.

Summary 

4.1.13.18  The development is acceptable from a transport and highways perspective subject to 

conditions and S106 planning obligations 

# 4.1.14 Standard of accommodation 

4.1.14.1  Development plan policies require new residential development to be of a high -quality design .

4.1.14.2  LP Policy D6 requires new residential development to meet minimum size requirements and 

be provided with sufficient daylight and sunlight. LLP Policy H5 explains that new residential 

development will be expected to provide dual -aspect accommodation, unless exceptional 

circumstances are demonstrated , and meet the requirements for accessible housing as set 

out in LP Policy D7 .

4.1.14.3  New residential development is required to be provided with the following level of external 

amenity space for al l residential units, as set out in LLP Policy H5 B: 

i)  For all new houses, 30sqm private amenity space per house should generally be 

provided. 

ii)  For all new flatted developments, amenity space should be provided to the following 

quantities: 10sqm per flat either as a balcony/terrace/private garden or consolidated with 

communal amenity space; and for development of 10 or more residential units a fur ther 

50sqm per scheme of communal amenity space. 

4.1.14.4  LLP Policy Q2 requires new residential development to have a n acceptable level of outlook 

and privacy. 

Size, layout and access 

4.1.14.5  The development would be arranged in two blocks, with a central access from Thornlaw 

Road . This is an appropriate access. All homes would meet the minimum space standards 

and be dual aspect (except for 1x1bedroom flat A.3.2) , meeting LP Policy D6 and LLP Policy 

H5. 

Daylight and sunlight 

4.1.14.6  The applicant submitted a daylight and sunlight report, which was independently reviewed by 

Arup. Arup have advised that the results demonstrate that the proposed design is compliant 

with BR 209 and BS EN 17037:2018 guidance for daylight and sunlight avail ability within the ↑ To contents 

building and for solar exposure within the proposed open areas. Officers are satisfied the 

proposed dwellings would receive appropriate levels of daylight and sunlight. 

Outlook and privacy and noise 

4.1.14.7  The proposed dwelling would have good outlook with unobstructed views from windows and 

balconies. 

4.1.14.8  The level change in the communal garden could allow for views from Knights Hill into the play 

area. It is proposed that a boundary of soft landscaping would screen views of this area; 

however, officers are concerned this may not sufficiently protect residential amenity . The 

Conservation and Design officer recommended a low boundary wall with metal railings 

designed in line with Secure d by Design , would offer better protection. 

4.1.14.9  The proposed height of the eastern boundary wall of unit A.02 of 1.1m would allow for 

sightlines from the public footpath and residential entrance on Thornlaw Road. This could 

potentially raise issues relating to loss of privacy, overlooking and usability of the space. As a 

result, it is recommended that a privacy screen is incorporated into the design . In addition, 

defensible space with planting for privacy would be provided for flats A04 and A05 (shown on 

drawing 23020 -FA -100 rev P7 ) and secured via condi tions  7and  16 .

Accessible accommodation 

4.1.14.10  Two of the proposed dwellings would be M(4)3 adaptable, which meets the 10 per cent 

required by LP Policy D7. These are 1 x two -bedroom (A.0.05) and 1x three -bedroom (A.0.3) 

apartments located at ground floor level. This aspect of the scheme is considered acceptable 

and compliant with policy. Condition 9 is included to ensure compliance. 

Amenity space 

4.1.14.11  The proposed flats would each have a private amenity space in the form of a garden (in the 

case for ground floor flats A.0.1 and A.0.2) or a balcon y/winter garden (in the case for all 

other dwellings). The balconies/winter gardens would range between 5.2sq.m. and 9.3sq.m., 

with the exception of flat A.3.3. which would have a large roof terrace of 76.9sq.m. the 

provision of winter gardens in this case is justified due to the increased noise levels from the 

neighbouring bus garage, as noted in the Amenity section, subject ion noise below. 

4.1.14.12  The proposal would also provide a communal amenity space of 362sq.m., which significantly 

exceed the required 50sq.m. and would compensate for the under provision of private 

amenity space where the balconies are under 10sq.m. 

Children play space 

4.1.14.13  The proposed development would generate 7.8 children calculated under the GLA population 

Yield Calculator. T he requirement for play space is 10sq.m. per child or 77.9sq.m. of play 

space . The application provides approx. 100 sq.m. of play space, which is above the minimum 

requirement. The detailed design would be secured via condition  12 .

Summary 

4.1.14.14  The development is considered to provide a good standard of residential accommodation .

# 4.1.15 Trees, landscap ing and ecology 

4.1.15.1  Strategic and local policies require development to be designed positively to integrate existing 

trees and maximise landscaping , new tree planting and biodiversity improvement 

opportunities. Where retention of trees is shown not to be possible , adequate replacement 

planting on or near the same location should be secured .↑ To contents 

Trees and landscaping 

4.1.15.2  The Council Arboricultural Officer noted that the tree cover within and adjoining the site 

comprises: 

• T1 & T2 Horse Chestnuts (Aesculus hippocastanum) – off -site, protected under TPO 

No. 128 (West Norwood Tennis Club, 1978); 

• T7 London Plane (Platanus × hispanica) – located on Thornlaw Road within the 

adopted highway; 

• Minor ornamental planting and conifers within the existing curtilage, all proposed for 

removal under the development (H3, G4, G5, T6 as identified on the submitted tree 

protection plan ). 

4.1.15.3  The proposed trees for removal (H3, G4, G5, T6 ) are classified as low quality . Whilst the 

existing trees are not considered to be of significant amenity, historic or ecological/habitat 

conservation value, officers accept that it is imperative to remove these trees to optimise the 

development potential of the Site and to deliver the amount of homes and affordable housing 

proposed. The proposed landscaping plan shows the planting of 16 new trees, which would 

compensate for the lost existing trees. This would be secured via condition  16 .

4.1.15.4  The Arboricultural Officer raised no objection s subject to conditions, Condition  14  -

Integrated Arboricultural Method Statement (AMS) and Tree Protection Plan (TPP) ;

Condition  15  - Detailed Tree -Pit Design and Planting Infrastructure; Condition  16  -

Landscape and Tree Planting Scheme; and Condition  17  – tree replacement (ten year 

period). 

Urban greening and biodiversity 

4.1.15.5  LP Policy G1 states that development proposals should incorporate appropriate elements of 

green infrastructure that are integrated into London’s wider green infrastructure network. LP 

Policy G5 goes on to state that this should be done by incorporating measures such as high -

quality landscaping (including trees), green roofs, green walls and nature -based sustainable 

drainage. LP Policy G6D states that development proposals should achieve biodiversity net 

gain (BNG). 

4.1.15.6  LP Policy G5 refers to the Urban Greening Factor (UGF) as a means to measure the amount 

of urban greening a development includes. This policy is supported by the Urban Greening 

Factor London Plan Guidance ( LPG ). The target for predominantly residential developments 

is 0.4 and for predominantly commercial developments it is 0.3. 

4.1.15.7  The submitted UGF report indicates that the proposal would achieve a UGF of 0.46 , which 

has been calculated in accordance with the guidance in the LPG and surpasses the minimum 

target set out in the LP. A landscaping plan is secured under Condition  16 , which would 

ensure the proposed development meets or exceeds the target of 0.4. 

4.1.15.8  The proposed development would deliver a biodiversity net gain of 10.25% net biodiversity 

gain habitats, and a 310.90% gain for hedgerows, which is acceptable and secured via 

condition  13 .

Open space 

4.1.15.9  The proposal site is in an identified area of open space deficiency. ↑ To contents 

4.1.15.10  LLP EN1 D seeks to increase the quantity of open space in the borough. Major applications in 

areas of open space deficiency or access to nature deficiency are required to provide 

appropriate on -site provision of open space or, where this is not feasible and w here this 

would address needs more effectively, make a financial contribution to enable the provision of 

new open space or improvements to accessibility and quality of existing public open space, 

including their nature conservation and biodiversity valu e. 

4.1.15.11  This requirement for open space is in addition to the residential amenity space requirements 

in LLP policy H5. The applicant will provide 362sq.m. of communal open space (significantly 

above the requirement set by LLP policy H5 of 50s.qm. ) and in addition green spaces of 

approximately 189sq.m. would be provided fronting Knights Hill and Thornlaw Road (as 

shown on the image below). Officers consider this would satisfy policy EN1D. 

Figure 11 - Open space provided on site 

# Other planning considerations 

4.1.16  Other planning issues that are relevant to this scheme are :

• Employment and training 

• Designing out crime 

• Flood risk and drainage 

• Basement impact 

• Air quality 

• Groundwater and land contamination 

• Fire safety ↑ To contents 

# 4.1.17 Employment and training 

4.1.17.1  LLP Policy ED15 (Employment and training states that planning obligations should be used to 

secure employment opportunities and apprenticeships arising from major developments, so 

that local residents are given access to the right skills training so that t hey can take 

advantage of opportunities created by new development. This includes the submission of a 

site -specific Employment and Skills Plan (ESP), which will be secured as part of the S106 

deed . The ESP would secure the following :

• A target of 25 per cent of all jobs created by the development (in the construction phase) 

to be secured by the Council for local residents; 

• Developers to engage with local schools, colleges and/or community organisations to 

promote amongst young people the range of careers available; 

• The developer to make all reasonable endeavours to meet these obligations 

4.1.17.2  The LP seeks a financial contribution which helps support and train those sections of the 

Lambeth workforce that are furthest from employment to enable them to access newly 

created employment opportunities which arise from the development. The development 

results in a £ 13,000 contribution, which (in addition to the ESP) will be secured within the 

S106 deed . An ESP will also be required and secured in the S106 deed ; this will relate to the 

construction and end use phase , the later would only relate to the community use floorspace .

# 4.1.18 Designing out crime 

4.1.18.1  LP Policy D11 states that development should include measures to design out crime that (in 

proportion to the risk) deter terrorism, assist in the detection of terrorist activity and help 

mitigate its effects. Similarly, LLP Policy Q3 expects development to design out opportunistic 

crime, antisocial behaviour and fear of crime in a site -specific manner as well as address 

resilience to terrorism. 

4.1.18.2  The application has been reviewed by the Secured by Design Officer. They consider there to 

be no reason why the development cannot achieve Secured by Design accreditation subject 

to Condition  10 .

# 4.1.19 Air Quality 

4.1.19.1  There is a Lambeth wide Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and Lambeth is also covered 

by the Non -Road Mobile Machinery (NRMM) Low Emission Zone. 

4.1.19.2  LP Policy SI 1 recognises the need to tackle poor air quality, protect health and meet legal 

obligations. Paragraph 9.2 of the LLP states that Lambeth will apply LP Policy SI 1 to all 

development proposals in the borough. This states that d evelopment proposals should not 

lead to further deterioration of existing poor air quality, create any new areas that exceed air 

quality limits, or delay the date at which compliance will be achieved in areas that are 

currently in exceedance of legal limit s, or create una cceptable risk of high levels of exposure 

to poor air quality. To meet these requirements, this policy requires proposals to be at least 

‘Air Quality Neutral’. Guidance on this is provided by the GLA in their Air Quality Neutral 

London Plan Guidance (LPG). 

4.1.19.3  The submitted Air Quality Assessment , prepared by Anderson Acoustics , June 2024 advises 

the development would achieve Air Quality Neural in both construction and transport phases .

4.1.19.4  In relation to transport it is noted the development is proposed to be car free and cycle 

parking provision is proposed, which can be considered air quality positive , given the ↑ To contents 

transport sustainability measures. These would be secured via conditions  23  and  42  and 

obligations as noted in the relevant subsection below. 

4.1.19.5  In relation to construction , this is subject to mitigation measure s to ensure the amenity of 

adjoining occupiers is properly protected condition  3 is recommended which requires a 

detailed consideration of construction impacts through the provision of a Construction 

Environmental Management Plan (CEMP). The Air Quality Assessment identifies a medium 

risk of dust soiling of the locality from the construction phase and recommends mitigation 

measures to ensure these impacts are minimised. Condition  31  would require the 

development to be constructed in accordance with this document and would require a 

statement of conformity prior to occupation. 

# 4.1.20 Flood risk and drainage 

Flood risk 

4.1.20.1  LP Policy SI 12 requires development proposals to ensure that flood risk is minimised and 

mitigated, and that residual risk is addressed. This is continued in LLP Policy EN5. 

4.1.20.2  The site is located in Flood Zone 1, meaning it is at very low risk of flooding from rivers and 

the sea. The Environment Agency’s Risk of Flooding from Surface Water map below shows 

most of the site is at low risk of flooding from this source, although the re is a significant 

surface water flow path and areas of high risk along the southern and eastern boundaries of 

the site.    

> Figure 12 -Surface water map

4.1.20.3  Officers note that th e site slopes down towards Knights Hill, meaning the ground floor is not at 

ground level on the Knights Hill side. As shown on the map above, surface water will 

therefore follow this topography and flow downhill onto Knights Hill. 

4.1.20.4  The proposed basement will be used as a community hall, which means it is classified as less 

vulnerable under the NPPF. The proposed ground floor uses are classified as more 

vulnerable. Under Table 2 of the PPG on Flood risk and coastal change - GOV.UK, this level 

of vulnerability is compatible with the site’s location in Flood Zone 1. However, given the high 

risk of surface water flooding around the site, and the fact that the proposals will impact flows ↑ To contents 

around the property, a pre -commencement condition  20  is recommended to ensure the risks 

are understood and mitigated. 

Drainage 

4.1.20.5  LLP Policy EN6 and LP Policy SI 13 requires development to utilise sustainable urban 

drainage systems (SUDS) unless there are practical reasons for not doing so. They also 

require proposals to achieve greenfield run -off rates and adequately manage surface water 

run -off. LP Policy SI 13 further sets out a drainage hierarchy to ensure that run -off water is 

managed as close to its source as possible and gives preference to green over grey features .

4.1.20.6  Discharge strategy - Surface water from the site will be attenuated in permeable paving and 

blue/green roofs before being discharged to the existing combined sewer in the southeast of 

the site. 

4.1.20.7  Discharge rates - The surface water discharge rate will be restricted to 1.5 l/s using a flow 

control device. This will be an improvement to the current situation, as the site is brownfield 

and currently discharges unrestricted to the sewer. 

4.1.20.8  Drainage strategy and indicative drainage plan - The applicant has considered the drainage 

hierarchy in the LP . Rainwater harvesting has been ruled out due to the budget. The 

landscaping will be irrigated using rainwater butts and a bespoke rainwater irrigation system. 

The flood risk officer agrees with the assessment in the SuDS Strategy that infiltration is not 

appropriate for the site due to the geology. 

4.1.20.9  The proposed development will include a blue/green roof at ground floor level above the 

basement, and at roof level. The ground floor/podium level will have 60 m3 storage, with a 

further 55 m3 at the roof level. These have been designed to have capacity fo r a 1 in 100 

year + climate change event. Permeable paving will be included along Knights Hill. 

4.1.20.10  Nothing the high surface water flood risk Condition  19  is recommended to require final 

details of a SuDS and ensure the development is provided with a satisfactory means of 

drainage and in the interests of securing a more sustainable development and to reduce the 

impact of flooding both to and from the development. 

# 4.1.21 Basement impact 

4.1.21.1  LLP Policy Q27 states that basement development will be supported where it can be 

demonstrated that no unacceptable impacts will result to ground water, land stability, surface 

water and flooding, vegetation survivability, waste to land fill and heritage a ssets. Major new -

build schemes may have a non -residential basement of more than one storey where it can be 

demonstrated that there would be no unacceptable impacts. 

4.1.21.2  The application is not supported by a Basement Impact Assessment. The environmental 

health consultant advised that planning conditions are appropriate for this application. The 

proposed pre -commencement condition  30  would ensure any risks are identified, assessed, 

and managed. 

# 4.1.22 Groundwater and land contamination , basement impact 

4.1.22.1  In accordance with LLP P olicy EN4 proposals should include an assessment of existing 

ground conditions and identify appropriate remedial measures for any contaminated land prior 

to development commencing. It further states “ Where contamination exists, a remediation ↑ To contents 

strategy should be submitted to the council for approval and implemented by a suitably 

qualified person prior to development commencing ”. 

4.1.22.2  The application is not supported by a Preliminary Environmental Risk Assessment . The 

Environmental health consultant noted that the demolition, site clearance and excavation of 

the basement may to lead exposure of potentially hazardous materials and soils. However, 

the environmental health consultant advised that planning conditions ar e appropriate for this 

application. The proposed condition  6 would ensure any risks are identified, assessed, and 

managed. 

# 4.1.23 Fire safety 

4.1.23.1  As required by LP Policy D12, a Fire Statement which is produced by an independent and 

accredited specialist has been submitted. O 

4.1.23.2  Officers are satisfied that the submitted Fire Statement provides sufficient information for 

planning stage and recommend Condition  43  is imposed on the planning permission to 

ensure that the strategy is implemented, and the development is carried out in accordance 

with this document. 

# Planning obligations and CIL 

# 4.1.24 Planning obligations 

4.1.24.1  LLP Policy D4 and Annex 9 sets out the Council’s policy in relation to seeking planning 

obligations and the charging approaches for various types of obligation. For contributions that 

are not covered by Annex 9, the Council’s approach to calculating contributions is guided by 

the Development Viability SPD (adopted 2017) and Affordable Workspace SPD ( adopted 

2022) .

4.1.24.2  The planning obligations that are proposed are considered necessary to make the 

development acceptable in planning terms, are directly related to the development and are 

fairly and reasonably related in kind and in scale to the development. They are theref ore 

compliant with the requirements of Regulation 122 of the Community Infrastructure Levy 

Regulations 2010. 

4.1.24.3  The proposed obligations to be secured through the S106 deed are as follows: 

Item  Details 

Affordable Housing 

• Delivery of 7 units of affordable housing with the 

following mix: 

- Social rent units :

2 x 1 bed room 

2 x 2 bed room 

1 x 3 bed room 

- Shared Ownership units :

1 x 2 bedroom 

1 x 3 bedroom ↑ To contents 

• Nomination rights to the council 

• an Early -Stage Viability Review, to be triggered if an 

agreed level of progress on implementation is not 

made within two years of the permission being 

granted .

• Affordable housing in lieu financial contribution in the 

event registered providers has not been secured. 

- Report demonstrating efforts have been made 

to secure registered providers 

- Affordable housing v iability assessment to 

determine the financial contribution in the event 

RP is not recured 

Energy and sustainability 

• Carbon off -set contribution: estimated to be £6,739 

residential and £489 non -residential. 

• Carbon off -set report 

Transport and accessibility 

• Ineligible for CPZ permits (in case of a future CPZ) 

• £40,000 for the provision of up to 2 disabled person's 

parking bays and EV chargers on the highway. 

• 3 years free membership of the Cycle Hire scheme for 

all residents 

• 3 year Car Club membership should be provided to all 

residents - available from first occupation 

• Highway works completed prior to occupation 

Employment and skills 

• Financial contribution of £13,000 for employment and 

skills 

• Employment and Skills Plan – Construction & End 

Use 

Other  • Monitoring fee (capped at 5% of all financial 

contributions )

NB – all financial contributions shall be index -linked. 

# 4.1.25 CIL 

4.1.25.1  If the application is approved and the development is implemented, a liability to pay the 

Lambeth Community Infrastructure Levy (CIL) will arise. 

4.1.25.2  Expenditure of the majority of a future CIL receipt will be applied towards Borough 

infrastructure needs in accordance with the applicable policies and procedures relating to 

expenditure decisions. 

4.1.25.3  Allocation of CIL monies to particular infrastructure projects is not a matter for consideration 

in the determination of planning applications. ↑ To contents 

# Equality duty and human rights 

4.1.25.4  The beginning of the Agenda Pack sets out the legislative background to equalities and 

human rights considerations and the approach that the decision -maker needs to take .

Reference should be made to those materials. 

4.1.25.5  Officers do not consider that the proposal would have any adverse impact on people with 

protected characteristics or that the rights of individuals under the European Convention on 

Human Rights would be infringed by the proposed developmen t.

4.1.25.6  If Members disagree with officers’ assessment and consider that there would be an impact 

not identified by officers, or that the impact identified would be greater than as set out by 

officers, they should consider whether the weight to be given to that imp act when considering 

the planning balance is such as to mean that planning permission should be refused. 

# Planning balance and conclusion 

# 4.1.26 Compliance with the development plan 

4.1.26.1  Section 70(2) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 states that in dealing with an 

application for planning permission the local planning authority shall have regard to the 

provisions of the development plan, so far as material to the application , a post -examination 

draft neighbourhood development plan, any local finance considerations (as defined in 

section 70(4), to include CIL receipts) and to any other material considerations . Section 38(6) 

of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 requires p lanning decisions to be made 

in accordance with the development plan unless material considerations indicate otherwise. 

4.1.26.2  When assessing whether an application complies with the development plan, it is necessary 

to look at the development plan as a whole. There may be policies that pull in different 

directions. It is necessary to reach a judgement about whether, when looked at overall, the 

application amounts to a departure from the development plan . Factors relevant to this 

judgement can include the number of policies not complied with, the extent of any non -

compliance , how up to date various policies are , and whether a polic y relates to the principle 

of development or a more minor aspect .

4.1.26.3  The proposed development involves the demolition of the existing buildings including a

church building (723sq.m) with residential space of (167sqm) and the redevelopment of the 

site with a part 3, part 5 storey building with basement providing community space (Use Class 

F2) and 20 residential flats (Use Class C3). 

4.1.26.4  The application complies with development plan policies relating to housing, design, 

transport, amenity, environmental impacts, etc. 

4.1.26.5  When the development plan is looked at as a whole , in officers’ assessment the proposal 

accords with it . The development plan policies identified as relevant to the assessment of the 

application are all complied with. 

# 4.1.27 Other material considerations 

4.1.27.1  Officers have identified the following material considerations in relation to the application. ↑ To contents 

Public benefits 

4.1.27.2  As set out earlier in the report, the proposal would not result in any harm to the significance of 

any designated or non -designated heritage assets. In those circumstances, there is no 

requirement to undertake a balancing exercise between heritage harm and public benefits. 

4.1.27.3  If Members disagree with officers’ assessment in respect of heritage impact , they will need to 

identify the level of harm they consider would be caused and apply the test in the relevant 

NPPF paragraph. 

Equalities and human rights 

4.1.27.4  The position as regards equalities and /or human rights impacts is addressed in section 

Equalities and human rights  above of the report .

# 4.1.28 Conclusion 

4.1.28.1  In officers’ assessment the application complies with the development plan when looked at 

overall .

4.1.28.2  There are material considerations in favour of the scheme such as the provision of 20 

residential units, 8 of which would be affordable housing. No material considerations have 

been identified that outweigh the merits of the proposal. Officers are therefore recommending 

that the application is approved. 

# Recommendations 

1.  Resolve to grant conditional planning permission subject to the completion of a 

satisfactory deed under Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 containing 

the planning obligations as set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes .

2.  Agree to delegate authority to the Director of Climate Change, Planning and Transport to: 

(a). Finalise the recommended conditions as set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC 

minutes; and (b). Negotiate, agree and finalise the planning obligations as set out in this 

report, addend a and/or PAC minutes pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country 

Planning Act 1990 .

3.  In the event that the Committee resolves to refuse planning permission and there is a 

subsequent appeal, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate Change, Planning 

and Transport, having regard to this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes, to propose 

planning conditions and to negotiate and complete a document containing obligations 

pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 in order to meet the 

requirement of the Planning Inspector. 

4.  In the event that a satisfactory Section 106 deed is not completed within six months of the 

date of the C ommittee meeting , delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate 

Change, Planning and Transport to refuse planning permission for failure to enter into a 

Section 106 deed providing for the obligations considered necessary to make the 

development acceptable in planning terms as identified in this report, addend a and/or the 

PAC minutes. ↑ To contents 

# 5. Appendices 

# Appendix 1 – Draft Decision Notice 

# DRAFT DECISION NOTICE 

Dear Mr Steve Knott 

# TOWN AND COUNTRY PLANNING ACT 1990 .

# PERMISSION FOR DEVELOPMENT 

The London Borough of Lambeth hereby permits under the above mentioned Acts and associated 

orders the development referred to in the schedule set out below subject to any conditions imposed 

therein and in accordance with the plans submitted, save in so far as may otherwise be required by the 

said conditions. 

In accordance with the statutory provisions your attention is drawn to the statement of Applicant’s Rights 

and General Information attached. 

Application Number: 24/02054/FUL Date of Application: 16.07.2024 

Proposed Development At : 2 Thornlaw Road London SE27 0SA 

For: Redevelopment of the site involving the demolition of all existing buildings and erection of a part 3, 

4 & part 5 storey building plus basement providing community space (Use Class F2) and 20 residential 

flats (Use Class C3), together with relocation of v ehicular access to the site from Thornlaw Road to 

Knights Hill, and parking, landscaping and other associated works. 

Approved Plans 

Refer to condition 2 

Conditions: 

1.  Time limits 

The development to which this permission relates must be begun no later than three years 

from the date of this decision notice. 

Your Ref: 

Our Ref: 24/02054/FUL 

Mr Steve Knott 

c/o Mr Ian Coomber 

c/o Parkers at Cornelius House 

178 -180 Church Road 

Hove 

BN3 2DJ ↑ To contents 

Reason: To comply with the provisions of Section 91 of the Town and Country Planning Act 

1990. 

2.  In accordance with the plans 

The development hereby permitted shall be carried out in accordance with the approved 

drawings : 23020 -FA -001 rev P1; 23020 -FA -002 P1; 23020 -FA -099 P8; 23020 -FA -100 P8;

23020 -FA -101 P6; 23020 -FA -102 P5; 23020 -FA -103 P6; 23020 -FA -200 P4; 23020 -FA -20 1

P4; 23020 -FA -310 P3; 23020 -FA -311 P4; 23020 -FA -312 P4; 23020 -FA -313 P4; 23020 -FA -

314 P1; Tree protection plan, Barrell Plan Ref: 24007 -1.

Reason: For the avoidance of doubt and in the interests of proper planning to ensure an 

acceptable standard of development in accordance with the development plan. 

3.  Construction management plan 

The development hereby approved, including demolition, shall not commence until a 

Construction Environmental Management Plan (CEMP) has been submitted to and approved 

in writing by the local planning authority. The CEMP shall include details of the followi ng 

relevant measures for both demolition and construction phase. 

i. An introduction consisting of a demolition and construction phase environmental 

management plan, definitions and abbreviations and project description and location; 

ii. A description of management responsibilities including complaint recording and 

management; 

iii. A description of the demolition and construction programme which identifies activities 

likely to cause high levels of noise or dust; 

iv. A named person for residents to contact within the main contractors’ organisation; 

v. Detailed Site logistics arrangements including provision of a suitable booking system for 

HGV deliveries; 

vi. Details regarding parking, deliveries, and storage; 

vii. A scheme of dust and noise mitigation measures to be deployed including identification of 

sensitive receptors, and a scheme of ongoing continuous monitoring and reporting for 

demolition and construction noise and dust impacts. The scheme shall be develope d by 

suitably qualified persons and shall include suitable targets and management actions in 

accordance with BS5228 Code of Practice for Noise and Vibration control and the Mayor of 

London's SPG 2014 (dust control) and provision of monitoring results t o the Local Planning 

Authority; 

viii. Site delivery hours and other measures to mitigate the impact of construction on the 

amenity of the area and safety of the highway network; 

ix. Communication procedures with the Local Planning Authority and local community 

regarding key construction issues - newsletters, fliers etc; 

x. A Site Wide Waste Management Plan (SWWMP) demonstrating how waste from 

demolition and construction will be minimised and dealt with giving due regard to the waste 

hierarchy, with minimal (target of less than 5 per cent by weight) disposal to landfill (the 

SWWMP shall include details of the likely destination of all waste streams (beyond the 

Materials Recycling Facility) and a written confirmation that the destination landfill(s) has/have 

the capacity to receive waste); and 

xi. A note stating the following: 

1. “With respect to the hours of operation for the site during construction, we note the 

standard hours indicated on the Public Protection/Noise part of Lambeth’s website and the ↑ To contents 

requirements of the Control of Pollution Act 1974’ and any variance to these hours will be 

negotiated with the council via the s61 prior consent process” 

The construction and demolition shall thereafter be carried out in accordance with the details 

and measures approved in the CEMP for the related phase, unless the written consent of the 

Local Planning Authority is received for any variation. 

Reason: To ensure minimal nuisance or disturbance is caused to the detriment of the 

amenities of adjoining occupiers and of the area generally, and to avoid unnecessary hazard 

and obstruction to the public highway (LP Policies T4 and SI 1 and LLP Policies EN4, T7, and 

Q2). 

4.  Construction, demolition and excavation waste 

Prior to first occupation of the development hereby permitted, evidence showing that 95% of: 

a) non -hazardous construction waste; 

b) non -hazardous demolition waste; and 

c) non -hazardous excavation waste 

has been reused, recycled or recovered; used for beneficial uses and diverted from landfill 

shall be submitted to the Local Planning Authority and approved in writing. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability (Policy EN7 

Lambeth Local Plan). 

5.  Non -road mobile machinery (NRMM) 

Where Non -Road Mobile Machinery (NRMM) of net power of 37kW and up to and including 

560kW is required on site during demolition, site preparation and construction phases, it must 

comply with the emission standards set out in chapter 7 of the GLA's suppleme ntary planning 

guidance "Control of Dust and Emissions During Construction and Demolition" dated July 

2014 (SPG), or subsequent guidance. Unless it complies with the standards set out in the 

SPG, no NRMM shall be placed on site, at any time, whether in use or not, without the prior 

written consent of the Local Planning Authority. The developer must register all NRMM on the 

official online register prior to bringing it on to site and shall keep the register up to date by 

listing all NRMM used during the demo lition, site preparation and construction phases of the 

development. 

Reason: To ensure that air quality is not adversely affected by the development, in accordance 

with Policy SI 1 of London Plan (2021) and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021). 

6.  Ground Contamination 

A) Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the local planning authority no development other 

than demolition shall commence until the following components of a scheme to deal with the 

risks associated with contamination of the site, including asbestos and unex ploded ordnance 

have been submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning authority: 

i) A desk study and site investigation scheme based on previous findings to provide 

information for a detailed assessment of the risks, to all receptors, including those off -site; that 

may be affected, as well as groundwater. 

ii) The site investigation results and the detailed risk assessment resulting from i); 

iii) An options appraisal and remediation strategy giving full details of the remediation 

measures required and how they are to be undertaken; ↑ To contents 

iv) A verification plan providing details of the data that will be collected in order to 

demonstrate that the works set out in iii) are complete and identifying any requirements for 

longer -term monitoring of pollutant linkages, maintenance and arrangements fo r contingency 

action. 

The development shall thereafter be implemented in accordance with the details and 

measures approved. 

B) Prior to occupation of any part of the development, a verification report demonstrating 

completion of the works set out in the approved remediation strategy and the effectiveness of 

the remediation shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the loca l planning authority. 

The report shall include results of sampling and monitoring carried out in accordance with the 

approved verification plan to demonstrate that the site remediation criteria have been met. It 

shall also include any plan (a “long -term monitoring and maintenance plan”) for longer -term 

monitoring of pollutant linkages, maintenance and arrangements for contingency action, as 

identified in the verification plan, and for the reporting of this to the local planning authority. 

C) If, during development, contamination not previously identified is found to be present at 

the site then no further development shall be carried out until the developer has submitted, 

and obtained written approval from the Local Planning Authority for, an amendment to the 

remediation strategy detailing how this unsuspected contamination will be dealt with. 

Reason: Development must not commence before relevant parts of this this condition are 

discharged to safeguard future users or occupiers of this site and the wider environment, 

including groundwater, from irreversible risks associated with the contaminant s which are 

present by ensuring that the contaminated land is properly treated and made safe before 

development. Depending on the outcome of any ground investigation and subsequent risk 

assessment, it may be necessary for remediation to be carried out. If this is the case, it will be 

necessary to demonstrate that any work has been carried out effectively and the 

environmental risks have been satisfactorily managed (section 2.1.8 of the London Plan 

(2021) and EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021)) and paragra phs 196 -201 of the NPPF 

7.  Detailed Design 

Notwithstanding the approved drawings, prior to the commencement of above ground level 

works hereby permitted, the details drawings shall be submitted to and approved in writing by 

the Local Planning Authority. The details shall include: 

a)  1:10 scale drawings of all external construction detailing and materials (including 

sections) including balconies, balustrades, handrails, windows and doors (inc. opening 

method, door number, letterbox, lockset), soffits and fascias, copings, cills, roofs, 

dormers, porches, rainwater goods, vents, extracts, pointing, jointing, fixings of cladding, 

plant screening, ramps, steps, retaining walls and means of enclosure; 

b)  Details of the building name and number to be displayed at the entrance and 

construction from robust material. 

c)  Details of any balcony balustrades and privacy screens (where required) 

d)  Boundary details (including provision of defensible space to flats A04 and A05 shown on 

drawing 23020 -FA -100 rev P7 ; an d a boundary between Knights Hill and the communal 

amenity space / play space to provide appropriate privacy ). ↑ To contents 

The development hereby permitted shall be thereafter built in accordance with the approved 

details. 

Reason: In the interest of visual amenities and to ensure that the external appearance of the 

building is satisfactory and that it protects or enhances the character and appearance of the 

Kennington conservation area. (Policies Q2, Q7, Q8 Q11 and Q22 of t he Lambeth Local Plan 

2021). 

8.  Schedule of materials and samples 

Prior to commencement of any building operations above ground level, a schedule of all 

materials to be used in the external elevations and roofs, including samples to be viewed on 

site, shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning au thority. 

With regard to the provision of samples to be viewed on site; samples shall be available on 

site for the review by the Local Planning Authority. These shall include sample panels of all 

external wall facing materials including cills, pointing, jointing, fi xings of cladding, copings; 

together with samples of windows and door surrounds, soffits and fascia's, and plant 

screening. 

The development shall be carried out in full accordance with the approved materials, unless 

otherwise agreed in writing by the local planning authority. 

Reason: In the interest of visual amenities and to ensure that the external appearance of the 

building is satisfactory and that it protects or enhances the character and appearance of the 

Kennington conservation area. (Policies Q2, Q7, Q8 Q11 and Q22 of th e Lambeth Local Plan 

2021). 

9.  Accessibility 

At least two of the residential units hereby permitted shall be constructed to comply with Part 

M4(3) of the Building Regulations. Any communal areas and accesses serving the M4(3) 

compliant Wheelchair User Dwellings should also comply with Part M4(3), and any communal 

areas and access serving M4(3)(2)(b) compliant Wheelchair User (accessible) Dwellings 

should also comply with Part M4(3)(2)(b). All other residential units, communal areas and 

accesses hereby permitted shall be constructed to comply with Part M4(2) of the Building 

Regulations. 

Reason: To secure appropriate access for people with accessibility requirements (Policy D7 of 

the London Plan (2021), and Policy H5 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

10.  Secured by design 

A) The development hereby permitted shall incorporate security measures to minimise the 

risk of crime and to meet the specific Security needs of the development in accordance with 

the principles and objectives of Secured by Design. Details of these measures s hall be 

submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority prior to commencement 

of the development and shall be implemented in accordance with the approved details prior to 

occupation. 

B) Prior to occupation, a satisfactory Secured by Design inspection must take place. The 

resulting Secured by Design certificate shall be submitted to and approved by the Local 

Planning Authority. ↑ To contents 

Reason: To ensure that the development maintains and enhances community safety (policy 

Q3 of the London Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

11.  External servicing equipment 

No vents, pipes, soil vent pipes, or extracts other than those shown on the approved drawings 

unless otherwise approved in writing by the Council. All services and plant to be concealed 

from view on elevation, roof, and carriage arch soffit which includes vents, pipes and rainwater 

goods. 

Reason: to secure quality design outcomes in accordance with Policy Q8 of the Lambeth Local 

Plan 2021. 

12.  Child play space 

No occupation of any new residential unit shall take place until details of the children’s play 

space, providing a minimum of 77.9 sq.m, have been submitted to and approved in writing by 

the Local Planning Authority. The play space shall be constructed prior to the occupation and 

retained for the duration of the development hereby permitted. 

Reason: To ensure a satisfactory amount of child play space is provided and to an appropriate 

standard to comply with Policy S4 of the London Plan (2021) and Policy H5 of the Lambeth 

Local Plan (2021). 

13.  Biodiversity net gain 

No development shall commence until a Biodiversity Gain Plan and Biodiversity Management 

Plan has been submitted to and approved in writing by the planning authority, demonstrating a 

minimum 10% net gain in biodiversity within a 30 -year period as a result of the approved 

development. The biodiversity gain plan must include matters outlined in paragraph 14(2) of 

Schedule 7A of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, and the following information, where 

relevant: 

(a) Baseline data collection and assessment of current conditions on site, 

(b) A commitment to measures in line with the Mitigation Hierarchy and evidence of how BNG 

Principles have been applied to maximise benefits to biodiversity, 

(c) Provision of the full BNG calculations, with detailed justifications for the choice of habitat 

types, distinctiveness and condition, connectivity and ecological functionality, 

(d) Details of the implementation measures and management of proposals, 

(f) Details of the monitoring and auditing measures. 

The approved development shall thereafter be implemented in accordance with the approved 

Biodiversity Gain Plan. 

The Biodiversity Management Plan shall include 30 -year objectives, management 

responsibilities, maintenance schedules and a methodology to ensure the submission of 

monitoring reports. 

Monitoring reports shall be submitted to the Council during years 2,5, 7, 10, 20 and 30 

following commencement of development, unless otherwise stated in the approved ↑ To contents 

Biodiversity Management Plan, and demonstrate how the BNG is progressing towards 

achieving its objectives, evidence of arrangements and any rectifying measures needed. 

Reason: To ensure the development delivers biodiversity net gain in accordance with the 

provisions of the Environmental Act (2021) Policy EN1 of Lambeth Local Plan (2021) and 

Policy G6 of the London Plan (2021) and the National Planning Policy Framework (2 024). 

14.  Arboricultural Method statement and Tree Protection 

No demolition, groundworks or enabling works shall commence until an updated AMS and 

TPP have been submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority (LPA). 

The AMS shall be based on the Arboricultural Impact Appraisal and Method Statemen t (Barrell 

Tree Consultancy, 2025) and shall: 

(a) Integrate the Construction Environmental and Transport Plan / Construction Traffic 

Management Plan, showing site set -up, access/egress, delivery routes, loading, lay -down and 

plant radii, kept outside RPAs or conducted on approved ground protection to BS 5837:2012 

and BS 5975 -1:2024. 

(b) Include a SuDS and utilities interface schedule identifying routes, depths and installation 

methods, with trenchless construction where feasible. Any excavation within or adjacent to 

RPAs shall be under Arboricultural Clerk of Works (ACoW) supervision. 

(c) Where tree pits or soil -volume infrastructure are proposed within or adjoining any RPA, 

provide construction methodology, temporary works and supervision details to prevent root 

damage or compaction. 

(d) Identify any facilitation pruning to off -site/TPO trees and to street tree T7, with BS 

3998:2010 specifications, timing and supervision, and set out the required approvals from both 

Planning and Highways. 

(e) Name the supervising ACoW, hold -points and reporting schedule. 

Reason: To prevent avoidable root damage and to coordinate temporary works, SuDS, utilities 

and planting infrastructure with tree protection (BS 5837:2012; BS 5975 -1:2024; Policies 

Q10/EN6; London Plan Policy G7). 

15.  Detailed Tree -Pit Design and planning in frastructure 

No groundworks or surfacing within proposed planting areas shall commence until detailed 

engineering drawings and specifications for all tree pits and associated planting infrastructure 

have been submitted to and approved in writing by the LPA. 

The submission shall include scaled plans, sections and manufacturer data sheets and shall 

demonstrate: 

a.  Minimum rooting volumes: ≥5 m³ per small -to -medium canopy tree and 

b.  ≥12 –15 m³ per large canopy tree, with linked rooting zones where trees are planted in 

series. 

c.  Engineered rooting environment: proprietary soil -cell or structural -soil systems 

beneath or adjacent to hard surfaces to BS 8545:2014 §8.3 and TDAG (2021). 

d.  Soil specification: imported/site -won soils verified to BS 3882:2015 and BS 

8601:2013, free from contamination, with barrier layers separating clean soil from sub -

base or attenuation media. ↑ To contents 

e.  Aeration and irrigation: permanent sub -surface systems, including inspection ports, 

perforated ducts and flexible collars, suitable for urban conditions. 

f.  Drainage and root barrier design: granular backfill, weep holes and protection 

membranes where trees adjoin retaining walls, SuDS or underground services. 

g.  Coordination statement: confirmation that utilities, drainage and SuDS alignments 

avoid tree pits and contiguous soil corridors. 

Development shall be carried out in accordance with the approved details. 

Reason: To ensure all new trees are provided with adequate rooting volume, aeration and 

drainage for long -term establishment and canopy development, in accordance with BS 

8545:2014, BS 3882:2015, London Plan Policy G7, and Lambeth Local Plan Policy Q10. 

16.  Landscaping 

Notwithstanding the information on the plans, prior to the first occupation of the development 

hereby permitted, a hard and soft landscaping scheme shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority. The development shall thereaf ter be carried out in 

accordance with the approved details prior to first occupation. All trees, shrubs and hedge 

planting included within the landscaping scheme shall accord with BS3936:1992, 

BS4043:1989 and BS8545:2014 (or subsequent superseding equival ent) and current 

Arboricultural and landscape industry best practice. The submitted details shall demonstrate 

the following: 

a.  Updated planting layout incorporating the approved tree -pit and soil -volume designs, 

with cross -sections and measured soil volumes per tree. 

b.  Species palette demonstrating compliance with the 10 -20 -30 diversity principle and 

omission of Betula pendula or other species unsuited to sealed surfacing, artificial 

lighting or restricted rooting. 

c.  Lighting plan confirming that no uplighting of tree canopies is proposed and that all 

luminaires within 10 m of trees are downward -directed and fully shielded. 

d.  Full planting specification for each tree and shrub (species, size, form, nursery stock 

type, staking, irrigation, mulch, spacing). 

e.  Ten -year Tree Establishment and Management Plan setting out: 

i.  Watering frequency and volumes (minimum 30 L per cm stem diameter 

during establishment); 

ii.  Mulching and weed control regime; 

iii.  Inspection and maintenance of irrigation systems, stakes, guards and 

guying; 

iv.  Annual arboricultural inspections in years 1 –5 and in years 7 and 10; and 

v.  Replacement schedule and performance indicators linked to the approved 

Urban Greening Factor (UGF) calculation. 

Reason: In order to ensure high quality hard and soft landscaping in and around the site in the 

interests of the ecological value of the site and in the interests of visual amenity. (Policies T7, 

H5, Q2, Q9 and Q10 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021 and G5, G6 and G7 of the London Plan 

2021). 

17.  Planting and tree replacement ↑ To contents 

All planting, seeding or turfing comprised in the approved details of landscaping and green 

roofs shall be carried out in the first planting and seeding season following the occupation of 

the development hereby permitted or the substantial completion of th e development, 

whichever is the sooner. 

Any hedgerows or shrubs forming part of the approved landscaping scheme, including green 

roofs, which, within a period of five years from the occupation or substantial completion of the 

development die, are removed or become seriously damaged or diseased s hall be replaced in 

the next planting season with others of similar size and species, unless the Local Planning 

Authority gives written consent to any variation. 

Any tree planted as part of the approved scheme which, within ten (10) years of planting, is 

removed, becomes seriously damaged, diseased or dies shall be replaced in the next 

available planting season with a tree of the same size and species (or a suitabl e alternative 

agreed in writing by the L ocal Planning Authority ). 

Reason: To ensure a satisfactory and appropriate landscape scheme relative to the 

development and t o maintain canopy cover, resilience and the Urban Greening Factor value of 

the site throughout the ten -year establishment period, ensuring compliance with BS 8545:2014 

and policies Q9 and Q10 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021. 

18.  Green roof 

Prior to the installation of the green roof, a detailed specification of the green roof shall be 

submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority. The specification shall 

include details of the quantity, size, species, position and the proposed time of planting of all 

elements of the green roof, together with details of their anticipated routine maintenance and 

protection. The green roof shall only be installed and thereafter maintained in accordance with 

the approved details. 

If within 5 years of the installation of the green roof any planting forming part of the green roof 

shall die, be removed, or become seriously damaged or diseased, then this planting shall be 

replaced in the next planting season with planting of a similar size and species. 

Reason: To safeguard the visual amenities of the area (policies Q2 and Q9 of the London 

Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

19.  Sustainable Drainage systems (SuDS) 

No development shall commence on site until a detailed design for the surface water drainage 

system and associated pipework presented in the applicant’s Drainage and SuDS Report has 

been submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority. The scheme for the 

surface water drainage shall be carried out in accordance with the approved details before the 

development is first put in to use/occupied. 

Reason: To ensure the development is provided with a satisfactory means of drainage and in 

the interests of securing a more sustainable development and to reduce the impact of flooding 

both to and from the development and third parties in accordance with P olicy SI 13 of the 

London Plan and Policy EN6 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021). 

20.  Flood Risk Assessment ↑ To contents 

No development shall commence on site until a detailed Flood Risk Assessment has been 

provided and approved by the Local Planning Authority. The document must assess the risk of 

flooding from all sources and provide details of measures taken to mitigate an y risks identified. 

It may include but not be limited to: 

a)  Details of flood resilient design measures 

b)  Evidence that safe access and egress will be maintained for all users in the event of 

flooding 

c)  Evidence that the development will be safe for all proposed users 

d)  Details of the likely effects of the development on surface water flow paths in frequent 

and extreme rainfall events 

e)  Evidence that the proposed development will not increase flood risk on or off site 

Reason: To ensure the development will be safe for its lifetime and will not increase flood risk 

in accordance with Policy EN5 of the Lambeth Local Plan (2021). 

21.  Management and maintenance plan of the surface water management system 

No development shall be brought in to use/occupied until a management and maintenance 

plan of the final surface water management system and associated pipework has been 

provided for approval by the Local Planning Authority. The plan must consider the 

manag ement and maintenance for the lifetime of the development which shall include the 

arrangements for adoption by any public authority or statutory undertaker and any other 

arrangements to secure the operation of the scheme throughout its lifetime. The approv ed 

plan shall be implemented in full in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. 

Reason: To ensure there are clear arrangements in place for ongoing maintenance over the 

lifetime of the development (Government ministerial statement HCWS161). 

22.  Waste and recycling storage 

Notwithstanding the approved drawings, prior to the commencement of the use hereby 

permitted, the following waste and recycling details shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority. 

a) Details how the development would meet the recycling target of 65 per cent. 

b) Detailed drawings showing the proposed waste and recycling waste storage. 

c) Details relating to the collection of waste 

d) Details relating to how the bins will be moved from the stores to the collection points on 

collection day and how the bins will be returned after collection 

The waste and recycling storage shall be provided in accordance with the approved details 

prior to the commencement of the use hereby permitted, and shall thereafter be retained solely 

for its designated use. 

Reason: To ensure suitable provision for the occupiers of the development, to encourage the 

sustainable management of waste; to safeguard the visual amenities of the area Policy Q12 of 

the London Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2021) and Policy SI 7 of the London Plan 2021. 

23.  Cycle storage 

Notwithstanding the approved drawings, prior to the occupation of the development, details of 

the provision to be made for cycle parking shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the 

Local Planning Authority. The cycle parking shall thereafter be im plemented in full in ↑ To contents 

accordance with the approved details before the use hereby permitted commences and shall 

thereafter be retained solely for its designated use. 

Reason: To ensure adequate cycle parking is available on site and to promote sustainable 

modes of transport. (Policies T3, T6, and Q13 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021). 

24.  BREEAM 

A)  Within six months of work starting on site of the development hereby permitted, a BREEAM 

New Construction V6, shell and core, Design Stage (Interim) certificate and summary score 

sheet shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning au thority to show 

that an Excellent rating (minimum score 70%) has been achieved for the community space. 

B)  Within six months of occupation of the development hereby permitted, a BREEAM New 

Construction V6, shell and core, Post Construction Review (Final), certificate and summary 

score sheet shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning aut hority to 

show that an Excellent rating (minimum score 70%) has been achieved the community 

space. 

C)  Within six months of work starting on site of the development hereby permitted, a BREEAM 

Refurbishment and Fitout 2014 Parts 3 and 4, Design Stage (Interim) certificate and 

summary score sheet shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local plan ning 

authority to show that an Excellent rating (minimum score 70%) has been achieved for the 

fit -out of the community space. 

D)  Within six months of occupation of the development hereby permitted, a BREEAM 

Refurbishment and Fitout 2014 Parts 3 and 4, Post Construction Review (Final) certificate 

and summary score sheet shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local 

plann ing authority to show that an Excellent rating (minimum score 70%) has been 

achieved for the fit - out of the community space. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability (Policy EN4 

of the Lambeth Local Plan 2020 -2035 (2021)). 

25.  Water consumption 

A)  Prior to the commencement of above ground works, documentation shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by the local planning authority elaborating on how a 12.5% reduction in 

building baseline water consumption will be achieved. 

B)  Prior to first occupation of the development hereby approved, evidence (including a schedule 

of fittings, manufacturer's literature and water use calculations) shall be submitted to the Local 

Planning Authority and approved in writing to show that a 12.5% reduction in building baseline 

water consumption has been achieved. 

Reason: To minimise water use (Policy SI5 of the London Plan 2021). 

26.  Water use 

Prior to first occupation of the development hereby approved, evidence (including a schedule 

of fittings and manufacturer's literature) shall be submitted to the Local Planning Authority and 

approved in writing to show that a residential internal water use of 105L/person/day or less has 

been achieved for all dwellings. 

Reason: To minimise water use (Policy SI5 of the London Plan 2021). 

27.  Central ised Heat Network ↑ To contents 

The development hereby permitted shall facilitate a future connection to a centralised heat 

network in line with paragraph 5.21 of the submitted “Energy and Sustainability Statement 

Thornlaw Road, London issue03” .

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability and it 

makes the fullest contribution to minimising carbon dioxide emissions (Policies SI 2 and SI 3 of 

the London Plan (2021) and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2020 -20 35(2021)). 

28.  Energy statement 

A)  Prior to the commencement of above ground works, an updated energy statement shall be 

submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning authority included details of 

demand side response measures and Be Seen. 

B)  The development shall be built in accordance with the approved Energy Statement 

demonstrating how the development will follow the hierarchy of energy efficiency, 

decentralised energy and renewable energy technologies to secure a minimum 35% 

reduction in CO 2 emissions beyond Building Regulations Part L 2021. 

C)  Prior to occupation of the development hereby permitted, evidence (e.g. photographs, 

copies of installation contracts and as -built worksheets prepared under the National 

Calculation Method) shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the local plannin g

authority to demonstrate that the development has been carried out in accordance with the 

approved Energy Statement unless otherwise agreed by the local planning authority in 

writing. 

D)  Upon completion of the first year of occupation of the development hereby permitted, and 

at least for the following four years after that date, accurate and verified annual in -use 

energy performance data for all relevant indicators of the development as pe r the 

methodology outlined in the ‘In -use stage’ chapter / section of the GLA ‘Be Seen’ energy 

monitoring guidance document (or any document that may replace it) shall be undertaken, 

and all data and supporting evidence shall be submitted to the GLA using the ‘Be Seen’ in -

use stage reporting webform (https://www.london.gov.uk/what -we -

do/planning/implementing -london -plan/london -plan - guidance -and -spgs/be -seen -energy -

monitoring - guidance). 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability and it 

makes the fullest contribution to minimising carbon dioxide emissions (Policies SI 2 and SI 3 of 

the London Plan (2021) and Policy EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2020 - 2035 (2021)). 

29.  Overheating assessment 

Prior to the commencement of above ground works, documentation shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by the local planning authority demonstrating that the risk of overheating 

has been minimised and the reliance on air conditioning has been minimis ed in line with the 

GLA's cooling hierarchy. Any mitigation measures required to reduce overheating shall be 

completed prior to occupation and thereafter be retained for the lifetime of the development. 

Prior to occupation of the development hereby permitt ed, evidence shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by the local planning authority to demonstrate that the development has 

been carried out in accordance with the approved overheating assessment unless otherwise 

agreed by the local planning authori ty in writing. ↑ To contents 

Reason: To ensure the design of the development reduces (as far as is possible) the potential 

for overheating and reliance on air conditioning systems (Policy SI 2 and SI 4 of the London 

Plan (2021)) and EN4 of the Lambeth Local Plan). 

30.  Basement Impact assessment 

No development shall take place until a Basement Impact Assessment considering Flooding, 

groundwater flows and the effects on neighbouring structures including historic structures has 

been submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authorit y. The statement 

shall be carried out by a suitably qualified person and shall include details regarding: 

(a) Detailed site -specific analysis of hydrological and geotechnical local ground conditions; 

(b) Analysis of how the excavation of the basement may impact on the water table and any 

ground water floor, whether perched water is present and confirmation of estimates of ground 

water flow rates and potential mounding effects. 

(c) Details of how flood risk, including risk from groundwater and surface water flooding has 

been addressed in the design, including details of any proposed mitigation measures; 

(d) Details of measures proposed to mitigate any risks in relation to land instability from any 

unacceptable ground water flows identified; 

(e) Demonstration of how cumulative and seasonal effects have been considered; 

(f) A comprehensive non - technical summary document of the assessments provided and 

information submitted against (a) to (e) of this condition. 

Reason: Development must not commence before this condition is discharged to avoid hazard 

in relation to land instability and increased flood risk caused by the basement excavation 

(Paragraph 121 of the National Planning Policy Framework 2012 and Policy EN 5 of the 

Lambeth Local Plan (2021). 

31.  Air Quality 

The development shall be constructed in accordance with the principles of the Planning Stage 

Air Quality Assessment dated 14 June 2024. Prior to occupation a statement of conformity 

confirming that no material changes have occurred in the design of the sch eme shall be 

submitted to and approved by the local Planning Authority. In the event material departures 

from the approved scheme are identified, a revised assessment of the proposed block shall be 

submitted demonstrating how relevant Air Quality Neutral b enchmarks shall be met and 

specifying any required mitigation that is considered necessary. All assessment work shall be 

carried out by a suitably qualified person and the revised details as approved shall be 

implemented and maintained for the duration of the development. 

Reason: To minimise increased exposure to existing poor air quality and make provision to 

address local problems of air quality (particularly within AQMAs) (policy 7.14 of the London 

Plan 2021.) 

32.  Noise from building services plant and equipment 

Prior to the commencement of building works above ground of the relevant part of the 

development, full details (including elevational drawings) of any internal and external plant 

equipment and trunking, including building services plant, ventilation and fi ltration equipment 

and commercial kitchen exhaust ducting / ventilation, shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority. All flues, ducting and other equipment shall be ↑ To contents 

installed in accordance with the approved details prior to the use commencing on site and 

shall thereafter be maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. 

Reason: To ensure that no nuisance or disturbance is caused to the detriment of the amenities 

of future residential occupiers or of the area generally (Policy Q2 (Amenity) – Lambeth Local 

Plan 2021). 

33.  Acoustic Impact and noise assessment s

A) The use hereby permitted, or the operation of any building services plant, shall not 

commence until an assessment of the cumulative acoustic impact arising from the operation of 

all internally and externally located plant has been submitted to and appro ved in writing by the 

local planning authority. 

The assessment of the acoustic impact shall be undertaken in accordance with BS 4142: 2014 

(or subsequent superseding equivalent) and current best practice and shall include a scheme 

of attenuation measures to ensure the cumulative rating level of noise em itted from the 

proposed building services plant is 5 dB less than background. 

B) Within 6 weeks of the date of the installation and commissioning all the approved 

equipment, a noise assessment shall be carried out by a competent person to confirm the 

approved BS4142 cumulative noise rating target has been met for both day and night -time 

operation of the installed plant and equipment. Any additional steps required to mitigate the 

noise impact shall be identified and implemented within 3 months of operation commencing. 

The post installation noise assessment shall be submitted to and ap proved in writing by the 

local planning authority. The details as approved shall thereafter be permanently retained. 

Reason: To protect the amenities of adjoining occupiers and the surrounding area (policy Q2 

of the London Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (20 21 ). 

34.  Vibration attenuation and ventilation 

Prior to the commencement of development, a scheme of noise and vibration attenuation and 

ventilation sufficient to prevent overheating and maintain thermal comfort shall be submitted to 

and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority. The scheme i ncluding performance 

details and a glazing plan shall achieve the habitable room standards as detailed in 

BS8233:2014 with no relaxation for exceptional circumstances and appropriate consideration 

of LAmax with suitable measures to ensure the thermal comfo rt of occupiers. 

Reason: To protect the amenities of adjoining occupiers and the surrounding area (policy Q2 

of the London Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

35.  Final verification report 

Prior to occupation a final verification report shall be submitted to and approved in writing by 

the local Planning authority. All work must be carried out by suitably qualified person and the 

approved noise, vibration attenuation and ventilation measures shall thereafter be retained 

and maintained in working order for the duration of the use in accordance with the approved 

details. 

Reason: To protect the amenities of adjoining occupiers and the surrounding area (policy Q2 

of the London Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). ↑ To contents 

36.  Noise levels from community uses and building services 

The scheme of noise and vibration attenuation shall ensure that operational noise levels from 

the community uses and building services plant do not exceed NR25 within residential or other 

noise sensitive locations during typical operations. These activitie s are considered to include 

the holding functions and the playing of live and amplified music (including the screening of 

sporting events and public address systems) within the commercial uses. The scheme must 

include details of stages of validation during the construction phase and a post construction 

scheme of validation and measurement to demonstrate substantive compliance. Details of the 

post construction validation shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the Local 

Planning Authority. 

Reason: To protect the amenities of future occupiers and the surrounding area (policy Q2 of 

the London Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2021)) 

37.  Amenity space noise levels 

Prior to the commencement of development, a scheme of measures to ensure that all 

residential units have access to amenity space within the development where noise levels do 

not exceed 55dB LAEQ(16 hour) shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the Local 

Planning Authority. The scheme shall include details of post construction validation. Thereafter 

the development shall be carried out in accordance with the approved details and a separate 

validation report shall be submitted to and approved in writ ing by the Local Planning Authority 

3 months prior to occupation. 

Reason: To ensure that no nuisance or disturbance is caused to the detriment of the amenities 

of future occupiers (Policy Q2, Amenity - Lambeth Local Plan 2021). 

38.  Hours of Operation of the community use 

The community use shall not operate other than within the following times: 

08:00 Hours to 22:00 Hours – Monday through to Thursday 08:00 Hours to 23:00 Hours –

Fridays and Saturdays. 

09:00 Hours to 22:00 Hours – Sundays, Bank Holidays or Public Holidays. 

Reason: To protect the amenities of adjoining occupiers and the surrounding area (policy Q2 

of the London Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2021) 

39.  Customer Management Plan 

The community use hereby permitted shall not commence until a premises management plan 

has been submitted and approved in writing by the local planning authority. This should 

include but not be limited to, hours of operation, management responsibilities du ring all 

operating hours, measures to control noise from live and amplified music (including the 

screening of sporting events and public -address systems) and minimising the effects of 

patrons coming and going from the building.. The use hereby permitted shall thereafter be 

operated in accordance with the approved details. 

Reason: To protect the amenities of adjoining occupiers and the surrounding area (policy Q2 

of the London Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2021). ↑ To contents 

40.  Delivery and Servicing 

The use hereby permitted shall not commence until a servicing management plan has been 

submitted and approved in writing by the local planning authority. The use hereby permitted 

shall thereafter be operated in accordance with the approved details. The sub mitted details 

must include the following: 

a) frequency of deliveries to the site; 

b) frequency of other servicing vehicles such as refuse collections; 

c) dimensions of delivery and servicing vehicles; 

d) proposed loading and delivery locations; and 

e) a strategy to manage vehicles servicing the site. 

Reason: To protect the amenities of adjoining occupiers and the surrounding area (policy Q2 

of the London Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2015) and to limit the effects of the increase in 

travel movements (Policy T8 (Servicing) - Lambeth Local Plan 20 21 )

41.  External Lighting 

a)  Prior to the commencement of building works above ground of the relevant part of the 

development, a lighting scheme must be submitted for the approval of the Local Planning 

Authority in accordance with the Institute of Lighting Professional’s Guidance note s for the 

reduction of obtrusive light. The scheme must be designed by a suitably qualified person in 

accordance with the recommendations for environmental zone E3 in the ILP document 

“Guidance Notes for the Reduction of Obtrusive Light GN01 -21. 

b)  Before commencement of operation of the approved lighting scheme the applicant shall 

appoint a suitably qualified member of the institute of lighting professionals (ILP) to validate 

that the lighting scheme as installed conforms to the recommendations for environmental 

zone E3 in the ILP document “Guidance Notes for the Reduction of Obtrusive Light GN01 -

21 the validation report shall be submitted to and approved by the local planning authority 

and the approved details and attenuation measures shall be perma nently retained and 

maintained in working order for the duration of the use and their operation. 

Reason: To ensure minimal nuisance or disturbance is caused to the detriment of the 

amenities of adjoining occupiers and of the area generally (Policy Q2 (Amenity) – Lambeth 

Local Plan 2021.) 

42.  Travel plan Statement 

Prior to the occupation of each building, a Travel Plan Statement shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority. The measures approved in the Travel 

Plan Statement shall be implemented prior to the use commencing and shall b e so maintained 

for the duration of the use, unless the prior written approval of the Local Planning Authority is 

obtained to any variation. 

Reason: To ensure that the travel arrangements to the site are appropriate and to limit the 

effects of the increase in travel movements (and Policies T1 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021) 

43.  Fire statement 

The development must be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the approved 

document Fire Statement, prepared by Nadim Choudhary dated 23.04.2024 unless otherwise 

approved in writing by the local planning authority. ↑ To contents 

Reason: To ensure that the development incorporates the necessary fire safety measures in 

accordance with the Policy D12 of the London Plan (2021). 

Notes to applicant: 

In dealing with this application the Council has implemented the requirement in the National 

Planning Policy Framework (2021) to work with the applicant in a positive and proactive 

manner. The Council has made available on its website the policies and guid ance provided by 

Lambeth Local Plan 2020 -2035 (September 2021) and its supplementary planning documents. 

We also offer a full pre -application advice service in order to ensure that the applicant has 

every opportunity to submit an application that’s likely to be considered acceptable. 

1.  This decision letter does not convey an approval or consent which may be required 

under any enactment, by -law, order or regulation, other than Section 57 of the Town 

and Country Planning Act 1990. 

2.  Your attention is drawn to the provisions of the Building Regulations, and related 

legislation which must be complied with to the satisfaction of the Council's Building 

Control Officer. 

3.  Your attention is drawn to the need to comply with the requirements of the Control of 

Pollution Act 1974 concerning construction site noise and in this respect, you are 

advised to contact the Council's Environmental Health Division. 

4.  You are advised of the necessity to consult the Principal Highways Engineer of the 

Highways team in order to obtain necessary prior approval for undertaking any works 

within the Public Highway including Scaffold, Temporary/Permanent Crossovers, 

Oversailing /Undersailing of the Highway, Drainage/Sewer Connections and Repairs on 

the Highways, Hoarding, Excavations, Temporary Full/Part Road Closures, Craneage 

Licenses etc. Please to go to  http://www.lambeth.gov.uk/business -services -rates -

andlicensing/licence -applications/highways -licences -guide .

5.  For information on the NRMM Low Emission Zone requirements and to register 

NRMM, please visit  http://nrmm.london/ 

6.  In relation to condition  3, you are advised that with respect to the hours of operation 

for the site during construction, your attention is drawn to the standard construction 

working hours indicated on the Public Protection/ Noise section of the Lambeth 

Council’s website given belo w, the requirements of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 (in 

particular sections 60/61) and the Environmental Protection Act 1990. Any variance to 

these hours will be negotiated with the Council via the section 61 prior consent 

process.www.lambeth.gov.uk/c ommunity -safety -anti -social -behaviour/noise -

complaints/what -you -need -know 

7.  In relation to condition  11 , The Council will expect all wall vents to be in conventional 

air bricks, all roof vents to the flush (in -line) type, no boiler flues on prominent 

elevations and no gas pipes or other services to be run externally. ↑ To contents 

8.  In relation to condition  22 , The Council will expect the submission of details to accord 

with the guidance in the Council’s refuse and Recycling Design Guidance (2022) and 

Waste & Recycling Storage and Collection requirements (2023). 

9.  In relation to condition  23 , The Council will expect the submission of details to accord 

with the guidance in the Council’s Design Guide and TFL London Cycle Design 

Standards. ↑ To contents 

INFORMATION FOR APPLICANTS GRANTED PLANNING PERMISSION SUBJECT TO 

CONDITIONS, OR WHERE PERMISSION HAS BEEN REFUSED. 

General Information 

This permission is subject to due compliance with any local Acts, regulations, building by -laws and 

general statutory provisions in force in the area and nothing herein shall be regarded as dispensing 

with such compliance or be deemed to be a consent by th e Council thereunder. 

Your attention is drawn to the provisions of the Building Regulations 1985 and related legislation which 

must be complied with to the satisfaction of the Council’s Building Control Officer, PO Box 80771, 

London SW2 9QQ .

The Council’s permission does not modify or affect any personal or restrictive covenants, easements, 

etc., applying to or affecting the land or the rights of any person entitled to the benefits thereof. 

STATEMENT OF APPLICANT’S RIGHTS ARISING FROM THE REFUSAL OF PLANNING 

PERMISSION OR FROM THE GRANT OF PERMISSION SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS. 

Appeals to the Secretary of State 

If the applicant is aggrieved by the decision of the local planning authority to refuse permission or 

approval for the proposed development or to grant permission or approval subject to conditions, he 

may appeal to the Secretary of State in accordance with Section 78 of the Town and Country Planning 

Act 1990 within six months from the date of this notice. Appeals must be made on a form which is 

obtainable from The Planning Inspectorate, Room 3/13 Temple Quay House, 2 The Square, Temple 

Quay, Bristol BS1 6P N. Alternatively an Appeal form can be downloaded from their website at 

https://www.gov.uk/appeal -planning -decision . The Secretary of State has power to allow longer period 

for the giving of a notice of appeal but he will not normally be prepared to exercise this power unless 

there are special circumstances which excuse the delay in giving notice of appeal. The Secreta ry of 

State is not required to entertain an appeal if it appears to him that permission for the proposed 

development could not have been gra nted by the local planning authority, or could not have been so 

granted otherwise than subject to the conditions imposed by them, having regard to the statutory 

requirements, to the provisions of the development order, and to any directions given under the order. 

Purchase Notice 

If permission to develop land is refused or granted subject to conditions, whether by the local planning 

authority or by the Secretary of State for the Environment, and the owner of the land claims that the 

land has become incapable of reasonably beneficia l use in its existing state and cannot be rendered 

capable of reasonable beneficial use by the carrying out of any development which has been or would 

be permitted, he may serve on the London Borough of Lambeth a purchase notice requiring that 

Council to p urchase his interest in the land in accordance with the provisions of Section 137 of the 

Town and Country Planning Act 1990. 

Compensation 

In certain circumstances, a claim may be made against the local planning authority for compensation, 

where permission is refused or granted subject to conditions by the Secretary of State for the 

Environment on appeal or on a reference of the application t o him. The circumstances in which such 

compensation is payable are set out in Section 120 and related provision of the Town and Country 

Planning Act 1990. ↑ To contents 

# Appendix 2 – List of main planning policies 

London Plan (2021) 

GG1 Building strong and inclusive communities 

GG2 Making the best use of land 

D3 Optimising site capacity through the design -led approach 

D4 Delivering good design 

D5 Inclusive design 

D6 Housing quality and standards 

D7 Accessible housing 

D8 Public realm 

D10 Basement development 

D11 Safety, security and resilience to emergency 

D12 Fire safety 

D13 Agent of Change 

D14 Noise 

H1 Increasing housing supply 

H2 Small sites 

H3 Meanwhile use as housing 

H4 Delivering affordable housing 

H5 Threshold approach to applications 

H6 Affordable housing tenure 

H7 Monitoring of affordable housing 

H8 Housing size mix 

S1 Developing London’s social infrastructure 

S2 Health and social care facilities 

S4 Play and informal recreation 

G1 Green infrastructure 

G4 Open space 

G5 Urban greening 

G6 Biodiversity and access to nature 

G7 Trees and woodlands 

G8 Food growing 

G9 Geodiversity 

SI 1 Improving air quality 

SI 2 Minimising greenhouse gas emissions 

SI 3 Energy infrastructure 

SI 4 Managing heat risk 

SI 5 Water 

SI 6 Digital connectivity infrastructure 

SI 7 Reducing waste and supporting the circular economy 

SI 8 Waste capacity and net waste self -suffic iency 

SI 12 Flood risk management 

SI 13 Sustainable drainage 

T2 Healthy Streets 

T3 Transport capacity, connectivity 

T4 Assessing and mitigating transport impacts ↑ To contents 

T5 Cycling 

T6 Car parking 

T7 Deliveries, servicing and construction 

Regional Guidance 

Relevant publications from the GLA include: 

• Accessible London SPG (2014) 

• Affordable Housing and Viability SPG (2017) 

• Draft Affordable Housing LPG (2023) 

• Air Quality Neutral LPG (202 3)

• Air Quality Positive LPG (202 3)

• ‘Be Seen’ energy monitoring guidance LPG (2021) 

• Circular Economy Statements LPG (2022) 

• The Control of Dust and Emissions During Construction and Demolition SPG (2014) 

• Draft Development Viability LPG (2023) 

• Energy Assessment Guidance (2022) 

• Draft Fire safety LPG (2022) 

• Housing SPG (2016) 

• Housing Design Standards LPG (202 3)

• Play and Informal Recreation SPG (2012) 

• Sus tainable Transport, Walking and Cycling LPG (202 2)

• Urban Greening Factor LPG (202 3)

• Whole Life -Cycle Carbon Assessments LPG (2022) 

Lambeth Local Plan 2020 - 2035 (2021) 

D1 Delivery and monitoring 

D2 Presumption in favour of sustainable development 

D4 Planning obligations 

H1 Maximising housing growth 

H2 Delivering affordable housing 

H3 Safeguarding existing housing 

H4 Housing size mix in new developments 

H5 Housing standards 

T1 Sustainable travel 

T2 Walking 

T3 Cycling 

T6 Parking 

T7 Servicing 

EN1 Open space, green infrastructure and biodiversity 

ED2 Local food growing and production 

EN3 Decentralised energy 

EN4 Sustainable design and construction 

EN5 Flood risk 

EN6 Sustainable drainage systems and water management 

EN7 Sustainable waste management 

S1 Safeguarding existing social infrastructure ↑ To contents 

S2 New or improved social infrastructure 

Q1 Inclusive environments 

Q2 Amenity 

Q3 Safety, crime prevention and counter terrorism 

Q5 Local distinctiveness 

Q6 Urban design: public realm 

Q7 Urban design: new development 

Q8 Design quality: construction detailing 

Q9 Landscaping 

Q10 Trees 

Q12 Refuse and recycling 

Q13 Cycle storage 

Q15 Boundary treatments 

Q20 Statutory listed buildings 

Q22 Conservation areas 

Q23 Non -designated heritage assets: local heritage list 

Q25 Views 

PN11 Upper Norwood/Crystal Palace 

Local Guidance / Supplementary Planning Documents (SPD) 

Relevant local guidance and SPDs for Lambeth include: 

• Affordable Workspace SPD ( 2022 )

• Development Viability SPD (2017) 

• Vauxhall SPD (2013) 

• Design Guide SPD (202 3)

• Draft Site Allocations Development Plan Document (202 4)

• Draft Lambeth Local Views SPD (202 4)

• Advertising & Signage Guidance (2016) 

• Marketing of Employment Premises and Sites Guidance Note (2015) 

• Parking Survey Guidance Note 

• Refuse & Recycling Storage Design Guide (2022) 

• Conservation Area statements 

Other guidance 

• BRE Site layout planning for daylight and sunlight (Third edition, 2022) ↑ To contents 

# Appendix 3 – List of consultees 

External consultees 

Metropolitan Police – Design Out Crime Officer 

Thames Water 

Internal consultees 

Arboricultural Officer 

CIL/S106 Team 

Conservation & Urban Design 

Design Out Crime Officer 

Development Infrastructure 

Enterprise, Employment And Skills 

Flooding - SUDS 

Highway Team Lambeth 

Housing 

Implementation Team 

Landscape Architects 

Parks & Open Spaces 

Planning Policy 

SERCO Lambeth Waste Team 

Transport Lambeth 

Other consultees 

Friends of Norwood Cemetery 

Hanover Gardens Association 

Helen Hayes Member Of Parliament 

Norwood Action Group 

Norwood Forum 

Norwood Forum 

Ward Councillors ↑ To contents 

# Appendix 4 – Site photographs 

Figure 13 - Google satellite view of the application site 

Figure 14 - View of the site from Knights Hill ↑ To contents 

Figure 15 - Existing entrance off Thornlaw Road 

Figure 16 - Existing church/ community hall ↑ To contents 

Figure 17 - existing church/ community buildings to the right and ancillary residential building to the left 

Figure 18 - Photograph from the application site looking towards the neighbouring property at 126 Knights Hill
