Title: Land Off Chapel Road London Knights Hill 2502646FUL.pdf

URL Source: https://moderngov.lambeth.gov.uk/documents/s173142/PAC%20Land%20off%20Chapel%20Road%202502646FUL%20FINAL.pdf

Published Time: Tue, 27 Jan 2026 12:00:00 GMT

Number of Pages: 56

Markdown Content:
Application for Planning Permission 

Application ref: 25/02646/FUL 

Site: Land Off Chapel Road London SE27 0SP 

Ward: Knights Hill 

Description : Erection of two -storey building to provide a self -storage facility (Use 

Class B8), associated parking and landscaping. 

Applicant: SHURGARD UK LTD 

Agent: ROK Planning 

Case officer: Fiona Dyson 

Drawing nos. See appendix 1 

Reason for PAC referral: The application is reported to the Planning Applications Committee 

in accordance with 2.5.1(b) of the Committee’s terms of reference 

as it would result in the construction of a building where the 

floorspace (measured by gross internal area) to be provided is 

1,000 square metres or more. 

Recommendation s:

1.  Resolve to grant conditional planning permission subject to the completion of a satisfactory 

deed under Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 containing the planning 

obligations as set out in this report , addend a and/or PAC minutes .

2.  Agree to delegate authority to the Director of Climate, Planning and Transport to: (a). Finalise 

the recommended conditions as set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes; and (b).

Negotiate, agree and finalise the planning obligations as set out in this report, addend a and/or 

PAC minutes pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 .

3.  In the event that the Committee resolves to refuse planning permission and there is a 

subsequent appeal, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport , having regard to this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes, to propose planning 

conditions and to negotiate and complete a document containing obligations pursuant to 

Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 in order to meet the requirement of 

the Planning Inspector. 

4.  In the event that a satisfactory Section 106 deed is not completed within six months of the date 

of the C ommittee meeting , delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning 

and Transport to refuse planning permission for failure to enter into a Section 106 deed 

providing for the obligations considered necessary to make the development acceptable in 

planning terms as identified in this report, addend a and/or the PAC minutes. CONTENTS 

Section no.  Section description 

1 Summary of application 

1.1  Executive summary 

1.2  Relevant designations 

1.3  Key information 

1.4  Summary of c onsultation 

2 Site context and proposal 

2.1  Site description 

2.2  Proposal description 

2.3  Relevant planning history 

3 Consultation and engagement 

• Pre -application engagement 

• Consultation by applicant 

3.1  Application consultation - public consultation 

3.2  Application consultation – external , internal and other consultees 

4 Application assessment 

4.1  Planning policie s

4.2  Main planning considerations 

4.3  Other planning considerations 

4.4  Planning obligations and CIL 

4.5  Equality duty and human rights 

4.6  Planning balance and conclusion 

4.7  Recommendations 

5 Appendices 

1 - Draft Decision Notice 

2 - List of main planning policies 

3 - List of consultees ↑ To contents 

# 1. Summary of application 

# 1.1  Executive summary 

1.1.1  The site comprises a cleared vacant brownfield site surrounded by hoardings , located at the 

junction of Knight's Hill and Chapel Road to the south of West Norwood district centre. 

1.1.2  The proposal seeks permission for the erection of two -storey building to provide a self -

storage facility (Use Class B8), associated parking and landscaping. 

1.1.3  The site is located within the N orwood Commercial Area KIBA. In line with Lambeth Local 

Plan Policy ED3 parts A and B, the development for self -storage within KIBAs is not only 

permitted, but the intensification of such uses is encouraged in accordance with London Plan 

Policy E7. 

1.1.4  The design is considered to be of high quality and no harm to the significance of any heritage 

assets has been identified. 

1.1.5  Whilst the site is located within a designated industrial area, it is acknowledged that it is also 

in close proximity to residential properties. Unacceptable impacts to amenity for neighbouring 

occupiers would be avoided in terms of suitable noise restricting conditio ns. 

1.1.6  A Road Safety Audit has been submitted, and highway officers have confirmed that th ere is 

no fundamental issue with the location of the proposed vehicular access. Trip generation 

would be low and a contribution to measures to reduc e speeding on Knights Hill would ensure 

that the development would not result in an adverse impact on highway safety. 

1.1.7  The development would result in the loss of some trees; however, replacement planting is 

proposed, and suitable conditions would ensure that the retained trees on site are protected 

1.1.8  Officers consider that the proposal would comply with the development plan. No material 

considerations are of sufficient weight to indicate that the application should be refused. 

Officers therefore recommend approval of the application, in accordance with the 

presumption in favour of sustainable development conferred upon local planning authorities 

by the National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF). Permission would be subject to planning 

conditions and Section 106 planning obligations. 

# 1.2 Relevant designations 

Type of designation  Applicable designation 

Key Industrial and Business Area  Norwood Commercial Area Key Industrial 

and Business Area 

Article 4 Direction  Class MA Article 4 2022 - KIBAs and 

WNCBC 

Neighbourhood Planning Areas  Norwood Planning Assembly 

Tree Preservation Order  Tree Preservation Order 423 - 107 Knights 

Hill ↑ To contents 

Smoke Control Area  Smoke Control Area 

# Key information 

# 1.2.1 Site area 

Total site area (sqm)  Total site area (hectares(ha)) 

3200  0.32 

# 1.2.2 Floorspace comparison 

Use description  Use class  Floorspace ( sqm )

(Gross Internal Area) 

Existing  n/a - vacant site 

Proposed  Storage  B8  3936.17 

Total proposed  3936.17 

# 1.2.3 Parking 

Car Parking 

Spaces 

(General) 

Car Parking 

Spaces 

(Blue Badge) 

%

EVCP  Bicycle Spaces 

Short stay  Long stay 

Existing  0 0 N/A  0 0

Proposed  7 1 12.5  6 6

# 1.2.4 Environmental performance 

Policy target  Proposed 

Energy 

Percentage of on -site carbon 

savings beyond Part L of 

Building Regulations (2021) 

35%  Total  98 %

Residential  n/a 

Non -

residential 

98 %

Percentage of on -site carbon 

savings achieved through 

energy efficiency measures 

Residential - 10% 

Non -residential - 15% 

Total  16 %

Residential  n/a 

Non -

residential 

16 %

Off -site reduction (%) and/or 

carbon offset contribution 

Shortfall to net -zero 

carbon target 

£224 

Unregulated carbon emissions  Major developments 

should calculate and 

Details would be required 

via condition ↑ To contents 

minimise unregulated 

carbon emissions 

Sustainability 

BREEAM score  Excellent  Excellent 

Urban Greening Factor (UGF)  No minimum requirement  0.48 

Biodiversity Net Gain (BNG)  10%  -44.75 %

# 1.2.5 Legal services clearance 

Name / 

position 

Lambeth 

department 

Date sent  Date 

received 

Report 

cleare d

Comments 

in para: 

Christopher 

Allingham –

Principal 

Property, 

Planning & 

Regeneration 

Lawyer 

Legal 

Services 

08/01/2025  Throughout 

document 

# 1.3 Summary of c onsultation 

1.3.1  67 properties were consulted on the application. There were 7 responses in objection to the 

application and 0 responses in support. ↑ To contents 

# 2. Site c ontext and proposal 

# 2.1 Site description 

2.1.1  The application site (“the Site”) is located at the junction of Knight's Hill and Chapel Road to 

the south of West Norwood district centre. It lies within the West Norwood Commercial Area 

KIBA and is a cleared vacant brownfield site surrounded by hoardings. The Site was 

previously occupied by the former South London College. That educational use ceased in 

1998, and the buildings were subsequently demolished, and the Site cleared. 

2.1.2  To the north is the ‘Big Yellow’ self -storage facility with Class B1 and B8 buildings of Weaver 

House and NMC House immediately to the east. To the south and west of the Site, along 

Chapel Road and Knight’s Hill are residential properties. The properties are primarily 

Victorian terraced houses and semi -detached houses. 

2.1.3  The surrounding area comprises a combination of commercial properties and industrial 

development and residential dwellings on the opposite sides of Knights Hill and Chapel Road. 

West Norwood train station is located approximately 400m north of the Site and there are bus 

stops within 100m of the Site. 

2.1.4  A number of trees on the site are protected by Tree Preservation Order 423. These include a 

London Plane (T1), Sycamore (T2), Norway Maple (T3), Field Maple (T4) and a group of 6 

Lime (G1) trees. 

2.1.5  The Site is not within a conservation area or within the West Norwood District Centre. Whilst 

there are no statutorily listed buildings on or neighbouring the Site , there are a number of 

locally listed buildings to the south of the Site on Chapel Road (Nos. 8 -20 (even), 22a and 

24). 

2.1.6  The Site is located at the junction of Chapel Road / Knights Hill, a London Strategic Route 

classified as the A215. The proposed development site has a PTAL score of 4, which is 

considered 'good' on a scale of 0 -6, where 0 is considered 'very poor' and 6a/b is classified as 

'excellent'. ↑ To contents 

Figure 1: The Site outlined in red, facing north 

Figure 2: The Site ↑ To contents 

Figure 3: The residential properties on Chapel Road 

Figure 4: The corner of the Site as viewed from Knights Hill ↑ To contents 

> Figure 5: The properties on Knights Hill

# 2.2 Proposal description 

2.2.1  Full planning permission is sought for the erection of two -storey building to provide a self -

storage facility (Use Class B8), associated parking and landscaping. 

2.2.2  The proposed building would cover a majority of the site with parking and pedestrian /

vehicular access to the front off Knights Hill. The building would have a proposed GIA of 

3,936.17 sqm , but the planning statement has indicated that this could be extended in future 

with mezzanine levels . This would be subject to a separate application ; however , the 

transport assessment has considered the impact of the maximum possible floor area in terms 

of the impact on the highway. 

2.2.3  The self -storage unit sizes would vary from approximately 1.5 m² to 22.5 m², with an average 

unit size of around 6 m². 

2.2.4  The building would be finished in red cladding and brickwork and would incorporate a 

biodiverse roof and PV Panel s at roof level .

2.2.5  A total of 12no. cycle parking spaces w ould be provided including 6no. long -stay spaces and 

6no. short -stay spaces (including 4no. cargo bike spaces). 8no. car parking spaces would be 

provided and 2 no. loading bays. 

2.2.6  Th e submitted drawings and documents for the application can be found at : 25/02646/FUL | 

Erection of two -storey building to provide a self -storage facility (Use Class B8), associated 

parking and landscaping. | Land Off Chapel Road London SE27 0SP ↑ To contents 

> Figure 6: The proposed development

# Amendments 

2.2.7  Minor design changes were made to reduce the amount of red cladding on the facades. 

# 2.3 Relevant planning history 

# Application site 

2.3.1  The relevant planning history is as follows :

Planning applications 

2.3.2  08/01231/OUT was refused on 30.07.2008 for ‘In outline, the erection of a part three, part 

four storey building comprising a cash & carry warehouse (class B8), offices (Class B1) and 

community hall (class D1), together with associated basement level car parking, new 

vehicular access on to Knight's Hill and Chapel Road, and pedestrian access on to Chapel 

Road, with respect to siting, design, external appearance and means of access’ 

Reasons for refusal: 

1)  There would be unacceptable noise generation from the site from Chapel Road 

entrance. The noise generation would be from cars coming and going from the site 

and the use of the site in combination with the late -night activity for the community 

provision. Th e proposal consequently fails to comply with Policies 7and 54 of the 

Unitary Development Plan. 

2)  The height, scale and bulk of the proposed development and its detailed design along 

Chapel Road would provide a discordant design out of keeping with the modest 

residential buildings within the street -scene. As such the proposed development would 

be out o f character with immediate area and would be detrimental to visual amenity, 

contrary to policies 31, 33, 38 and 39 of the Unitary Development Plan. ↑ To contents 

3)  The proposed development would have an unacceptable impact on highway safety on 

Knight’s Hill, a London Strategic Route classified as the A215, leading to danger and 

inconvenience to pedestrians and other highway users. This is due to the increased 

traffic generation and number of turning movements to and from the site, including the 

introduction of a new vehicular access to Knight’s Hill to be used by articulated lorries 

and which is located in close proximity to a signal -controlled pedestrian crossing. Th is, 

in combination with the gradient of Knight’s Hill and the existing nature of traffic flow 

on Knight’s Hill, where have been a number of personal injury accidents, would prove 

a danger to pedestrians and motorists. As such, the application would be cont rary to 

policy 9 of the Unitary Development Plan. 

2.3.3  17/04472/OUT was refused on 23.03.2018 for ‘Outline application for a mixed -use 

redevelopment comprising B8 floorspace, B1 floorspace and residential apartments, with 

associated car parking and landscaping. (Approval sought for Access only, with Appearance, 

Landscapin g, Layout and Scale matters all reserved). ’

Reasons for refusal: 

1)  The proposed introduction of a residential use onto the site would prejudice the West 

Norwood Commercial Area KIBA designation and the potential for a KIBA compliant 

development to come forward in the future. It would further impact on the continued 

operat ion of industrial uses in the KIBA and would jeopardise their future viability. As 

such, the proposal would fail to comply with Policy ED1 of the Lambeth Local Plan 

2015. 

2)  The proposed development would have an unacceptable impact on highway safety on 

Knight's Hill, a London Strategic Route classified as the A215, leading to danger and 

inconvenience to pedestrians and other highway users due to increased traffic 

generation a nd turning movements to and from the site. As such, the proposal would 

fail to comply with Policies T6 and T8 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2015. 

3)  In the absence of a s.106 legal agreement securing the provision of affordable 

housing; and the employment, sustainability and transport mitigation measures 

identified, the proposal would be contrary to Policies H2, EN3, ED14 and D4 of the 

Lambeth Local Pl an 2015. 

2.3.4  22/04095/FUL was refused on 22.11.2023 for ‘Development of the site to provide a Class E 

retail unit at ground floor, with flexible commercial / industrial floorspace at first floor (Class 

E(g)(ii), E(g)(iii)) alongside access, car parking, landscaping and associated works.’ 

Reasons for refusal: 

1)  The proposed retail use is not supported within a Key Industrial Business Area (KIBA) 

and a Locally Significant Industrial Site (LSIS), where only industrial and light 

industrial uses are appropriate. In addition, it has not been demonstrated that the 

pro posed light industrial element of the scheme would be the optimum industrial 

intensification required for a site designated as a KIBA/LSIS. The proposed 

development is contrary to policy ED3 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021 and policies 

E4, E5, E6 and E7 of the London Plan 2021. ↑ To contents 

2)  The proposed 43 car parking spaces significantly exceed the maximum threshold of 

22 car parking spaces, contrary to policies, T1 and T6 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021 

and policy T6 and T6.3 of the London Plan 2021. 

3)  The proposed development has the potential to unacceptably impact the safe 

operation of the local highways due to the proposed access and intensification of the 

use posing danger to highways users, as a result of the increased vehicular trip 

generation bot h in terms of vehicular number and size; the proximity of the signalised 

pedestrian crossing to the north; and the inadequate width of the proposed right turn 

facility. For those reasons, the proposed development is contrary to policies T1 and 

T6 of the La mbeth Local Plan 2021; and T2, T3, T4, T6 and T6.3 of the London Plan 

2021. 

4)  Insufficient information has been submitted to demonstrate that appropriate green 

infrastructure/landscaping has been provided to mitigate for the loss of existing trees, 

other greenery and habitats. No compensation has been provided for the loss of 21 

exi sting trees and the potential loss of 10.22 biodiverse habitats, in the lack of a s106 

agreement to secure (1) adequate replacement of trees and/or financial contribution, 

and (2) off site provision of open space and biodiverse habitats, the application is 

contrary to Lambeth Local Plan polices Q9 and Q10 and London Plan policies, G6 

and G7 of the London Plan 2021. 

5)  In the absence of a s.106 legal agreement securing the provision of (1) cycle hire 

membership; (2) s278 highways agreement; (3) Healthy Routes Network financial 

contribution; (4) considerate constructors scheme membership; (5) carbon emissions 

cash in lieu contribution; (6) travel plan and monitoring fee; and (7) employment and 

skills plan and financial contribution; the proposal would be contrary to Policies T1, T3, 

T6, T7, ED15, EN1 and PN7 of the Lambeth Local Plan 2021 and SI2, and T6 of the 

London Pla n 2021. 

Appeals 

2.3.5  APP/N5660/A/09/2096671 (LPA ref. 08/01231/OUT) - Dismissed - Decision date: 

02.07.2009 

2.3.6  In outline, the erection of a part three, part four storey building comprising a cash & carry 

warehouse (class B8), offices (Class B1) and community hall (class D1), together with 

associated basement level car parking, new vehicular access on to Knight's H ill and Chapel 

Road, and pedestrian access on to Chapel Road, with respect to siting, design, external 

appearance and means of access. 

2.3.7  APP/N5660/W/18/3212148 (LPA ref. 17/04472/OUT) - Dismissed - Decision date: 

24.12.2019 

2.3.8  Outline application for a mixed -use redevelopment comprising B8 floorspace, B1 floorspace 

and residential apartments, with associated car parking and landscaping. (Approval sought 

for Access only, with Appearance, Landscaping, Layout and Scale matters all reserved). ↑ To contents 

# 3. Consultation and engagement 

# 3.1  Pre -application engagement 

3.1.1  A pre -application advice request was submitted to the Council earlier in the year for a similar 

scheme. The principle of the proposal was broadly supported, with potential issues regarding 

highway safety, loss of trees and design raised. 

# 3.2  Consultation by applicant 

3.2.1  500 newsletters were distributed to homes and businesses around the S ite , a website was 

published, and Local Councillors were contacted about the proposals. The applicant states 

that they had 13 responses logged on the website feedback form. 

# 3.3 Application consultation - public consultation 

3.3.1  Public consultation was undertaken in accordance with statutory and Council requirements. 

3.3.2  Initial l etters were sent to a total of 8 properties surrounding the application site . Two site 

notice s were posted on 22 .09 .20 25 , and a press notice was posted on 26 .09.2025. 

3.3.3  A wider consultation was carried out on 11.12.2025 with letters sent to a total of 67 

properties. Public consultation ended on 04 .01 .202 6.

3.3.4  No comments of support and a total of 6 objection s were received . These are summarised 

and responded to below: 

OBJECTING COMMENTS 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Land use 

There are a number of self -storage units in 

the area 

The site is located within a designated Key 

Industrial Business Area (KIBA) where self -

storage uses are encouraged. 

There is no community benefit in a storage 

facility which is not wanted 

Self -storage facilities do not add huge value 

in terms of local job creation and very little 

amenity to residents. 

The Section 106 deed will include a 

construction and end use Employment and 

Skills Plan and contribution. 

This planning allows them to expand further 

at a later date 

The application is solely for 3,936.17sqm. 

Any expansion would be assessed under a 

separate planning application or permitted 

development application . However the 

Transport assessment is based on the 

maximum possible future expansion. 

Design ↑ To contents 

Excessive scale and massing  The scale is considered to be acceptable for 

the Site. This is discussed further in the 

design section. 

Harm to Heritage Assets  The conservation officer has assessed the 

application, and there is considered to be no 

harm to the heritage assets. 

"stock brick and metal composite cladding" 

does not fit with the over 100 year old 

houses that are on Chapel Road 

The design has been assessed as being in 

keeping with the surroundings. This is 

discussed further in the design section. 

Amenity impact 

The development will rob our property of the 

right to light given its enormity. 

The application has been independently 

assessed by a sunlight/ daylight expert and 

found to be in line with BRE guidelines. 

Overlooking to residential properties  This is assessed in the amenity section of 

the report 

Overbearing impact  This is assessed in the amenity section of 

the report 

Transport 

Cycle lockers causing issues on Chapel 

Road 

This is outside of the Site boundary and 

cannot be assessed as part of the 

application 

Highway safety from new access - the 

20mph limit is frequently ignored 

A Road Safety Audit has been submitted 

and found to be sound. A contribution is 

recommended via the S106 deed to fund 

measures to reduce speeding. Increased congestion on road 

The Transport Statement claims trip 

generation will be "negligible". However, this 

calculation appears to be based on the 

initial floor space. It fails to adequately 

account for the traffic impact once the 

facility expands to its full potential capacity 

of nearly 8,000 sqm. 

The Transport Officer has assessed the 

application in full on the surrounding 

transport network, including the potential for 

future increase in space, and found it to be 

acceptable. 

How has the impact of additional traffic 

been ass ess ed on the impact of the major 

bus route on Knight Hill? 

The "loading area" is described merely as a 

"flexible space". This lack of defined, 

A condition requiring a car parking 

management plan is recommended. ↑ To contents 

segregated loading infrastructure increases 

the risk of vehicles queuing or manoeuvring 

unsafely, potentially backing up onto the 

highway 

Ha s the increased noise or traffic and 

people access site 24 hrs been assessed 

The application is not for a 24 hour use, and 

hours of operation are conditioned. 

Sustainable design and construction 

There is a “no build” zone within 5m of the 

boundary retaining wall so as not to disturb 

the Tensar matting ground anchors that 

restrain the wall blocks 

This is a civil matter and is separate from 

planning issues. 

Trees, landscaping and biodiversity 

The proposed development involves the 

removal of one individual Category B tree 

(Ref: T6) and a Category B tree group (ref: 

G5). The submitted Arboricultural Impact 

Assessment makes it clear that such trees 

“should be retained where possible in the 

Context of the develo pment” 

The application has been assessed by the 

Tree officer and conditions have been 

recommended regarding the trees. This is 

discussed further in the Tree section of the 

report. 

The Planning Statement claims that only 

"one individual B category tree... and five C 

category trees" will be removed. However, 

the technical Ground Level Tree 

Assessment explicitly lists a much higher 

number of trees to be felled, including T20, 

T21, and T2 

An updated Arboricultural Impact 

Assessment has been submitted, this is 

discussed further in the Tree section of the 

report. 

Not only does the proposed development 

fail to achieve a 10% biodiversity net gain, 

but it also achieves a significant net loss of 

44.75% 

A condition would require BNG to be 

provided offsite to meet the 10% 

requirement. 

The removal of tree cover and the 

introduction of artificial lighting in this 

location threatens local biodiversity 

The Ecology Officer has assessed the 

application and has found it acceptable 

subject to conditions. 

This building will negatively affect the 

Pipistrelle bats in the area and have an 

adverse effect on the already limited wildlife 

Procedure 

Developers ‘comms and outreach’ did not 

reach the people on chapel road 

Public consultation was carried out in line 

with statutory requirements. The Council is 

not responsible for developer’s 

communications. ↑ To contents 

Other 

Disruption during build  This is not a planning matter. 

Impact on house prices  This is not a planning matter. 

Developers may leave and not build  The Council must assess the application as 

submitted and cannot speculate on the 

future of the Site. 

How has the fire engine turning circle been 

assessed and included in the planning 

A Fire Statement has been submitted and 

assessed as complying with London Plan 

D12 .

# Application consultation – external , internal and other consultees 

# 3.3.5 External consultees 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Transport for London (TfL) 

Considering the location and scale of the 

proposal TfL has no strategic comments. 

The applicant should ensure the cycle 

parking provision is in line with London Plan 

policy T5 part A and is be located in a 

secure, sheltered and accessible location, 

and meet design standards set out in 

Chapter 8 of the London Cycle Design 

Standards (LCDS ). 

The applicant should ensure the proposed 

car parking is set below the maximum 

standards highlighted in London Plan policy 

T6.2 

Noted. A condition is recommended requiring 

cycle parking details ( 6)

# 3.3.6 Internal consultees 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Arboricultural Officer 

The applicant has not yet demonstrated that 

the proposal complies with Policy Q10 in 

respect of Tree T9. Retention assumptions 

Noted. C onditions are recommended ( 24 –

27) to ensure the development complies with 

policy Q10. ↑ To contents 

remain optimistic and are not supported by 

sufficient evidence at this stage. 

However, should the Local Planning 

Authority be minded to approve the 

application, the above interdependent 

conditions are necessary to provide a lawful 

and policy -compliant route forward .

Conservation and Urban Design 

Following a review of the amended 

documents, we offer no objections from a 

design perspective in relation to the 

proposed elevation treatment .

Noted .

Energy and Sustainability ( Blewburton )

No objections subject to conditions.  Noted. Conditions 17 – 23 are 

recommended. 

Environmental Health ( EHST )

No objections subject to conditions regarding 

CEMP, Contamination, Noise, Hours of 

Operation, Delivery and Servicing, External 

Lighting 

Noted. Conditions 9 – 16 and 37 are 

recommended. 

Ecology Officer 

We have no objections in principle to the 

proposed development, subject to securing 

additional information as to the proposed 

external soft landscaping scheme, which 

should also include further details regarding 

the proposed biodiverse green roof and all 

the ecological additions or enhancements as 

recommended in the Preliminary Ecological 

Assessment (PEA). 

In addition, we support the provision of 

information as to addressing the expected 

shortfall in securing a minimum 10% 

biodiversity net gain (BNG) for the 

development, which would include both 

onsite and offsite BNG provisions, again as 

detailed in the PEA and the associated BNG 

assessment report. 

Noted. Conditions 26 , 28 and 29 are 

recommended. 

Flood Risk ↑ To contents 

On the basis the site is at low risk of flooding 

from surface water, the LLFA has no 

objection to the principle of the development. 

Should planning permission be granted, the 

LLFA recommends conditions 

Noted conditions 35 and 3 6 are 

recommended. 

Highways 

No objection to Road Safety Audit (RSA)  Noted. 

Planning Policy 

Lambeth Local Plan policy ED3 A states that 

development in KIBAs will only be permitted 

for business, industrial, storage and waste 

management uses, including green 

industries and other compatible industrial 

and commercial uses (excluding large scale 

retai l). Therefore, the provision of a B8 use is 

supported. 

Noted. 

Transport 

No objections subject to a contribution 

towards measures to reduce speeding on 

Knights Hill (£40,000), S278 wor ks to create 

a vehicle access on Knights Hill, and 

conditions regarding cycle storage, CMP, 

Travel Plan, Vehicle weight limit and car 

parking management plan 

Noted. A S106 deed would capture the 

contribution and secure a S278 agreement .

Conditions are recommended. ( 6, 9, 15, 31,

32)

# 3.3.7 Other consultees 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Cllr Meldrum 

New investment in the KIBA is welcome. 

This proposed building is in a prominent site 

and will be the gate way to West Norwood 

town centre for those coming from the south. 

Will Shurgard incorporate the "Norwood 

Works" graphics, promoting the KIBA, on its 

site? 

West Norwood is primarily built in London 

brick. The brick finish to the proposed 

building could be a better fit with the local 

neighbourhood. 

Comments noted. 

Any signage would require advertisement 

consent, and there is no requirement to 

incorporate the graphics on the building. 

Further details of materials would be 

required via condition ↑ To contents 

Knights Hill is a steep busy road with no 

speed cameras. There have been several 

serious road accidents in recent years at the 

Chapel Rd -Ernest Ave - Cheviot Rd junctions. 

The accidents usually involve north bound 

traffic turning right. 

The traffic light pedestrian crossing over 

Knights Hill is exactly opposite the substation 

and its zig zag lines extend in front of most of 

the site. 

A detailed traffic analysis will be needed to 

support any road entrance on Knights Hill. 

Relocation of the pedestrian crossing may be 

required. 

The pavement at the corner is almost a 

parklet - albeit somewhat neglected. Can this 

parklet be included in any S106? 

Will Shurgard be incorporated into the 

Station to Station BID area? 

A contribution towards measures to reduce 

speeding is recommended. 

A Road Safety Audit has been submitted and 

scrutinised by Highway O fficers and found to 

be sound. 

This is outside the red line of the Site, and it 

is not considered appropriate to require this 

to be included in the S 106 deed. 

This is not a planning requirement. ↑ To contents 

# 4. Application assessment 

# 4.1 Planning policies 

4.1.1  Section 38(6) of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 requires planning 

decisions to be made in accordance with the development plan unless material 

considerations indicate otherwise. 

4.1.2  The development plan for the Site is the London Plan 2021 (‘LP’) and the Lambeth Local Plan 

2021 (‘LLP’) .

4.1.3  The National Planning Policy Framework ( NPPF ) was last revised in 202 4. This document 

sets out the Government’s planning policies for England including the presumption in favour 

of sustainable development. It is a material consideration in the determination of all 

applications. 

4.1.4  The application has been considered against all relevant national policies and development 

plan policies, as well as any relevant guidance. A list of the main relevant policies and 

guidance has been set out in Appendix 2 to this report. 

4.1.5  The report addresses compliance with specific development plan policies. The planning 

balance section of the report sets out an assessment of whether, overall, there is compliance 

with the development plan. 

# 4.2 Main planning considerations 

4.2.1  The main planning issues raised by the application that the Committee must consider are :

• Principle of land use 

• Design 

• Heritage impact 

• Sustainable design and construction 

• Amenity impact 

• Transport 

• Trees, landscap ing and ecology 

# Principle of land use 

Presumption in favour of sustainable development 

4.2.2  The NPPF sets the presumption in favour of sustainable development, and this is reflected in 

LLP Policy D2 and the other policies in the plan. LLP Policy D2 states that the Council will 

always work proactively with applicants jointly to find solutions which mean that proposals can 

be approved wherever possible and to secure development that improves the economic, 

social and environmental conditions in Lambeth. 

Making effective use of land 

4.2.3  Chapter 11 of the NPPF seeks to promote the effective use of land and para. 1 24 states: 

Planning policies and decisions should promote an effective use of land in meeting the need 

for homes and other uses, while safeguarding and improving the environment and ensuring 

safe and healthy living conditions. Strategic policies should set out a clea r strategy for ↑ To contents 

accommodating objectively assessed needs, in a way that makes as much use as possible of 

previously developed or ‘brownfield’ land. 

4.2.4  This is carried forward in various policies in the London Plan. LP Policy GG2 seeks to enable 

development of brownfield land, among other areas, and prioritise sites which are well 

connected by public transport. 

Loss of existing use 

4.2.5  The site was previously occupied by the former South London College. That educational use 

ceased in 1998, and the buildings were subsequently demolished and the site cleared, 

therefore, the site has been vacant and cleared for over 20 years. As such subject to the 

development being a KIBA and policy compliant use there are no land use objections to the 

development of the site .

Proposed use 

4.2.6  LP policy E4 requires sufficient supply of land and premises to meet current and future 

demands for industrial and related functions to be provided and maintained. This supply 

should make provision for the varied operational requirements of different indus trial uses, 

including storage and logistics/distribution (Use Class B8). 

4.2.7  LP policy E7 part A states that the intensification of business uses in Use Classes B1c, B2 

and B8 occupying all categories of industrial land should be encouraged through: 

1) introduction of small units 

2) development of multi -storey schemes 

3) addition of basements 

4) more efficient use of land through higher plot ratios having regard to operational yard space 

requirements (including servicing) and mitigating impacts on the transport network when 

required. 

4.2.8  In line with LLP Policy ED3 parts A and B, the development for storage within KIBAs is not 

only permitted, but the intensification of such uses is encouraged in accordance with LP 

policy E7 section A as stated above. Development proposals of this type shou ld have regard 

to operational requirements (including servicing) and mitigate impacts on the transport 

network where required. This is assessed in the Transport Section of the report. 

Summary 

4.2.9  The proposal is a compliant use for land designated as KIBA, and subject to compliance with 

other policies regarding amenity, design and transport, there is no objection to the proposed 

use as self -storage. 

# Design 

4.2.10  Design -based policies include many site -specific considerations, but in general, seek to 

ensure development responds to the positive aspects of its local context , has a bulk, 

scale/mass, siting, building line and orientation which adequately preserves or enhances the 

prevailing local character , and has a design quality which is visually interesting and well 

detailed. 

Siting and layout 

4.2.11  The design aims to optimise the site's potential with the massing set back to align with the 

footprint of the site . Whilst the building will sit forward of no.107 Knights Hill to the north, it is ↑ To contents 

considered that this building sits reasonably far back on its site, and the proposal would follow 

the established building line along Knights Hill to the south. 

4.2.12  The layout is considered appropriate to the Site, and care has been taken to retain TPO 

trees, and establish a safe vehicular access, this is discussed further in the tree and transport 

sections below. 

Scale and massing 

4.2.13  Due to land topography, it is noted that the proposed building will sit on higher ground than 

that of no. 107 Knights Hill to the north. As a result, due to siting and scale the proposed 

building will be prominent in street views in both directions along Knights Hill .

4.2.14  It is considered the two -storey height is appropriate in the wider context, and care has be en

ta ken to reduce the massing along Chapel Road with a chamfered roof (see figure 7 below) .

> Figure 7: Elevation along Chapel Road

Detailed design 

4.2.15  The proposed elevations incorporate stock brick alongside red and grey panelling resulting in 

a restrained architectural approach, particularly along the western and southern elevations. 

The use of brick cladding at ground floor level along the frontage and chapel Road elevations 

are a welcomed enhancement, contributing to a more grounded and contextually appropriate 

streetscape . The amount of red cladding was reduced in area during the course of the 

application; further details of the cladding would be required to ensure the colour is 

appropriate in the w ider context. 

4.2.16  Plans indicate that an approximate 1.8m fence to perimeter the site to the west and south. 

Details of this, along with details of the materials are recommended as a condition ( 3). 

Summary 

4.2.17  Subject to further details being submitted, it is considered that the development is of an 

appropriate scale and design for the vicinity. ↑ To contents 

# Heritage impact 

Approach to heritage consideration s

4.2.18  The beginning of the Agenda Pack sets out the legislative background and the national and 

borough level policy context . Reference should be made to those materials. 

4.2.19  The first step is to identify the nature and extent of any harm to the significance of any 

designated heritage assets. This will be a matter for the planning judgement of the decision -

maker, looking at the facts of the application and taking into account the importance of the 

asset in question. Minimal harm to the value of a designated heritage asset should still be 

placed within the category of less than substantial harm. When assessing any application 

which may affect the setting of a heritage asset, the impact of cumulative change may need 

to be considered. 

4.2.20  Clear and convincing justification is required by NPPF paragraph 2 13 for any harm to the 

significance of a designated heritage asset. The second step is therefore to balance that 

harm against the public benefits of the scheme, applying the requirements of NPPF 

paragraph 2 15 in the case of less than substantial harm , or NPPF paragraph 2 14 in the case 

of substantial harm (or total loss of significance) .

4.2.21  A public benefit can be anything that delivers economic, social or environmental objectives, 

which are the three overarching objectives of the planning system as set out in the NPPF. 

The Planning Practice Guidance advises that “ public benefits should flow from the proposed 

development. They should be of a nature or scale to be of benefit to the public at large and 

not just be a private benefit. However, benefits do not always have to be visible or accessible 

to the public in orde r to be genuine public benef its, for example, works to a listed private 

dwelling which secure its future as a designated heritage asset could be a public benefit ”. The 

degree of weight to attach to any particular public benefit is a matter for the decision -maker. 

4.2.22  Public benefits can include heritage benefits. If heritage harm and heritage benefit arise in 

relat ion to the same asset, the decision -maker should consider whether the benefit would 

prevent the harm from arising and , if it would, avoid double -counting the heritage benefit 

when identifying the public benefits. If there is harm to one asset but a heritage benefit to a 

different asset, the heritage benefit accruing to one should not be treated as meaning that 

there is no heritage harm to the other .

4.2.23  Importantly, the balancing exercises required by NPPF paragraph 2 14 and 2 15 are not simple 

unweighted exercises in which the decision -maker is free to give heritage harm whatever 

degree of weight they wish. In Barnwell Manor the Court of Appeal identified that the 

decision -maker needed to give “considerable importance and weight” to any finding of likely 

harm to a listed building or its setting in order properly to perform the section 66 duty. 

Sections 66 and 72 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conserv ation Areas) Act 1990 

amount to a statutory presumption against development that would harm the significance of a 

listed building or a conservation area. The presumption can be outweighed, but only if there 

are material considerations (which will include a proposal’s public benefits) that are strong 

enough to do so. 

4.2.24  The decision -maker needs to ensure that they give considerable importance and weight to 

harm to the significance of a designated heritage asset, and ensure that the more important 

the asset, the more the weight that is given to the harm in the balancing exercise . Where the 

significance of more than one designated heritage asset would be harmed by the proposed ↑ To contents 

development, the decision -maker needs to account for each individual harm and identify ,

overall, the resulting degree of less than substantial harm or substantial harm. 

4.2.25  The assessment of the nature and extent of harm to the significance of a non -designated 

heritage asset is a matter for the planning judgement of the decision -maker, looking at the 

facts of the application and considering the importance of the asset in question. NPPF 

paragraph 2 16 does not prescribe how the balanced judgement required should be 

undertaken, or what weight should be given to any particular matter. 

Assessment of heritage impact 

4.2.26  The impact of the proposed development has been assessed against the following heritage 

assets :

> Figure 8: Image showing non -designated heritage assets in yellow

Non -designated heritage assets 

4 – 24 Chapel Rd 

4.2.27  The proposal has been designed to be sympathetic to the properties on Chapel Road with the 

use of brickwork and a chamfered roof design. It is considered that there would be no harm to 

these heritage assets. 

A square granite plinth and square base drinking fountain, at the junction of Knights Hill and 

Chapel Road 

4.2.28  The works would not infringe on the setting of the drinking fountain and is considered to result 

in no harm to the heritage asset. 

Summary 

4.2.29  The results of the above assessment on the proposal’s impact on heritage assets are 

summarise d in the table below :

Non -Designated Heritage Asset  Degree of harm ↑ To contents 

4 – 24 Chapel Rd  No harm 

A square granite plinth and square base 

drinking fountain, at the junction of Knights 

Hill and Chapel Road 

No harm 

4.2.30  In officers’ assessment no harm to the significance of any heritage assets has been identified, 

meaning that the proposal complies with the heritage policies of the development plan. 

# Sustainable design and construction 

4.2.31  Strategic and local policies require development to demonstrate how it would minimise its 

impact on the environment , including through its construction and end -use. 

Energy strategy 

4.2.32  LP Policy SI 2 states that major developments should be net -zero carbon. This means 

reducing greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the following energy hierarchy: 

• Be Lean: use less energy and manage demand during operation 

• Be Clean: exploit local energy resources (such as secondary heat) and supply energy 

efficiently and cleanly .

• Be Green: maximise opportunities for renewable energy by producing, storing and 

using renewable energy on -site .

• Be Seen: monitor, verify and report on energy performance .

4.2.33  The submitted Energy Strategy indicates that the proposed development will achieve 98 per 

cent on -site improvement over baseline emissions for regulated CO2 emissions. This 

includes a 16 per cent reduction from energy efficiency measures at the Be Lean Stage, 

which surpasses the 15 per cent requirement under the LP. 

4.2.34  The proposed Be Lean energy efficiency measures include highly efficient fabric, lighting, and 

control systems. 

4.2.35  The Be Clean Stage - given that the building consists of unoccupied storage space, and there 

are no heating systems with this element, it is not considered appropriate to conne ct to any 

future district energy networks. 

4.2.36  The Be Green Stag e measures include renewable technologies including ASHPs and PVs. 

4.2.37  The Be Seen Stage requires the development to monitor and report to the GLA on the energy 

performance of the development as -built and in the in -use phase for every year following 

occupation of the development for at least the first five years. This is secured by condition 20.

4.2.38  The proposed development surpasses the required minimum 35 per cent reduction in CO2 

emissions on -site . To confirm that the suggested performance will be achieved , a condition is 

included (20 ) requiring confirmation that the development has been bu ilt in accordance with 

an updat ed Energy Strategy. 

4.2.39  In order to achieve the ‘zero carbon’ requirement, the remaining regulated carbon dioxide 

emissions are proposed to be off -set through a cash in lieu contribution to be ring fenced to ↑ To contents 

secure delivery of carbon dioxide savings elsewhere. This would be secured within a S106 

deed . The current estimate is that this would amount to £ 224. 

4.2.40  In respect of unregulated emissions, these would be minimised through energy efficiency 

measures . A condition is recommended for these to be calculated and minimised, see 

condition 19 . This would ensure compliance with LP Policy SI 2. 

Sustainable construction 

4.2.41  LLP Policy EN4 states that development proposals should demonstrate in a supporting 

statement that sustainable design standards are integral to the design, construction and 

operation of the development. 

4.2.42  LLP Policy EN4 requires all new non -residential development to meet at least BREEAM 

‘Excellent’. A BREEAM Pre -Assessment within the Sustainability Statement has been 

prepared and submitted with the application in accordance with L LP Policy EN4 .

4.2.43  The Sustainability Statement commits to achieving an Excellent BREEAM Rating for the 

proposed development, noting that it could achieve a BREEAM score of approximately 72.65 

per cent (whereby the BREEAM ‘Excellent’ target score is 70 per cent ). The assessment is 

carried out for the proposed development to fully fitted . A condition (17 ) is therefore included 

requiring a minimum final certificated rating of Excellent to be achieved. Subject to this the 

proposed development would comply with the relevant polic ies. 

Overheating mitigation 

4.2.44  LP Policy SI 4 states that major development proposals should demonstrate how they will 

reduce the potential for internal overheating and reliance on air conditioning systems in 

accordance with a hierarchy that prioritises passive measures overactive measures. LLP 

Policy EN4 requires development to be resilient to climate change by including appropriate 

climate change adaptation measures. 

4.2.45  The application was accompanied by an overheating assessment and condition 21 has been 

included to ensure that the risk of overheating has been minimised in line with the GLA’s 

cooling hierarchy. 

Water efficiency 

4.2.46  LP Policy SI 5 states that through the use of planning conditions, developments should 

minimise the use of mains water. LLP Policy EN6 seeks to minimise water consumption and 

incorporate water re -use systems where practical. 

4.2.47  Condition 18 would ensure the development would minimise water use .

Waste and the circular economy 

4.2.48  LP P olic y SI 7 requires all developments referable to the Mayor of London to provide a

Circular Economy Statement (CES). LP Policy D3 requires development proposals to 

integrate circular economy principles as part of the design process. LLP Policy EN7 supports 

the circular economy principles and the approach to driving waste management up the waste 

hierarchy in accordance with national and regional policy and targets, and in particular , the 

efficient use of resources, the reuse of materials and resources, composting , and the 

recovery of energy from materials. 

4.2.49  The application does not require referral to the Mayor, and therefore, a CE S is not required by 

policy. ↑ To contents 

Demolition and c onstruction waste 

4.2.50  LP Policy SI 7 and LLP Policy EN7 require that at least 95 per cent of construction and 

demolition waste should be reused, recycled or recovered and at least 95 per cent of 

excavation waste should be put to beneficial use. Disposal of construction, demolition and 

excavation (CD&E) waste in landfill should only take place where it has been demonstrated 

that alternative, more sustainable fates are not feasible. Condition 23 is recommended to 

secure details of how the proposal will comply with this requirement .

Operational phase 

4.2.51  For waste generated by the ongoing use of the development, LP Policy SI 7 sets a recycling 

target of 65 per cent. The submitted operational waste strategy commits to this target and an 

updated waste management plan is required by condition 5, setting out in detail how waste 

and recycling would be managed. 

4.2.52  The proposal complies with LP Policy SI 7 and LLP Policy EN7 subject to the aforementioned 

conditions. 

# Amenity impact 

4.2.53  LLP Policy Q2 requires development to protect the amenity of existing/future occupants, 

neighbours and the visual amenity of the community of a whole. 

Daylight, sunlight and overshadowing 

4.2.54  The Planning P ractice Guidance (PPG) includes guidance on making effective use of land, 

including planning for higher density development. The PPG states : “Where a planning 

application is submitted, local planning authorities will need to consider whether the proposed 

development would have an unreasonable impact on the daylight and sunlight levels enjoyed 

by neighbouring occupiers ”.

4.2.55  The PPG also acknowledges that wider planning considerations are relevant in considering 

appropriate levels of daylight and sunlight. Th e guidance notes that all developments should 

maintain acceptable living standards. However, th e guidance also notes that assessing what 

are appropriate levels of sunlight and daylight will depend to some extent on the context of 

the development as well as its detailed design . L ower daylight and sunlight levels at some 

windows may be unavoidable if new developments are to b e in keeping with the general form 

of their surroundings. In such situations good design will be necessary to help make the best 

use of the site and maintain acceptable living standards. 

4.2.56  In this respect, paragraph 1 30 (c) of the NPPF states: “local planning authorities should refuse 

applications which they consider fail to make efficient use of land, taking into account the 

policies in this Framework. In this context, when considering applications for housing, 

authorities should take a flexibl e approach in applying policies or guidance relating to daylight 

and sunlight, where they would otherwise inhibit making efficient use of a site (as long as the 

resulting scheme would provide acceptable living standards).” 

4.2.57  LLP Policy Q2 states that development will be supported if: (iv) it would not have an 

unacceptable impact on levels of daylight and sunlight on the host building or adjoining 

property including their gardens or outdoor spaces. Paragraph 10.2 of the LLP sta tes 

“Sustainable development should protect the amenity of existing/future occupants, 

neighbours and the visual amenity of the community as a whole .”↑ To contents 

4.2.58  The beginning of the Agenda Pack a contains broad contextual overview of the assessment 

framework within which sunlight and daylight studies are undertaken and the application of 

the Building Research Establishment (‘BRE’) Guidelines . This includes an explanation of the 

key terms and targets contained within the BRE Guid elines. The following assessment has 

been made in the context of this information. 

4.2.59  A Daylight and Sunlight Report (dated 4th June 2025 ) prepared by Right of Light Consulting 

was submitted in sup port of the proposal. Officers consider that the methodology and scope 

of the Report is acceptable. 

4.2.60  The Report provides an assessment of the daylight and sunlight impacts on neighbouring 

properties and overshadowing impacts on neighbouring open space areas. The Report has 

been reviewed by Ian Dias (Schroeders Begg) a daylight / sunlight consultant appointed by 

the Council, whose comments are incorporated into this section of the PAC report. 

4.2.61  The assessment includes both residential and commercial properties nearby the site, 

including the following :

• 3 Weaver Walk 

• 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 19 -21, 20, 22, 22a, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32 and 32A Chapel 

Road 

• 107, 117C, 136, 138, 140, 142, 144, 146, 148 and 150 Knights Hill 

4.2.62  The sensitive receptors for overshadowing within the study area are listed below: 

• 24 Chapel Road 

Daylight and sunlight impacts 

4.2.63  Whilst in terms of daylight analysis and VSC , the proposal results in some reductions, the 

daylight/sunlight consultant has confirmed that these all meet with the BRE guidelines with 

the exception of 24 Chapel Road , which has two windows at lower ground level which would 

have VSC lev els of 26.4% and 25.6%, falling slightly below the BRE guide of 27%. 

4.2.64  The Council’s consultant considers that these windows are impacted by the projecting 

external staircase and given the slight shortfall and the overall compliance with the BRE 

guidelines, th is should be considered acceptable 

4.2.65  For sunlight analysis, the proposal would meet BRE criteria for both Annual Probable Sunlight 

Hours and winter hours. 

4.2.66  The rooftop PV panels on the neighbouring site (107 Knights Hill) have also been tested and 

the Council’s consultant has confirmed there would be a limited impact on these, and the 

BRE guidelines have been met. ↑ To contents 

> Figure 9: Section of proposal in relation to Chapel Road

Overshadowing impacts 

4.2.67  The proposed building would be two storeys in height and would include a chamfered roof 

along Chapel Road (see figure 9) . It is considered that given the distance and the chamfering 

the building would not result in overshadowing or appear overbearing. 

Summary of daylight, sunlight and overshadowing impacts 

4.2.68  The daylight/ sunlight consultant confirms that the effects from the proposed development to 

the daylight and sunlight of neighbouring residential properties should be considered 

acceptable. 

Outlook 

4.2.69  In terms of outlook, the proposal will result in a noticeable change from the existing situation 

given the Site is currently a vacant plot, however the scale is considered appropriate to the 

dwellings on Chapel Road. Whilst there will be a change in the outlook from these dwellings ,

and those opposite on Knights Hill , it is not considered to be over dominant or result in an 

adverse impact on these occupiers. 

Privacy 

4.2.70  Given the proposed use of the building as self -storage and the very limited windows, the 

development would not result in a loss of privacy to the neighbouring properties on Knights 

Hill or Chapel Road .

Noise 

4.2.71  Whilst the site is located in a KIBA, it is on the edge of the designation, with residential 

properties along Chapel Road. In terms of the use within a KIBA, it is considered that storage 

use is likely to be an appropriate industrial use next to residentia l. 

4.2.72  Policy D13 (Agent of Change) of the London Plan places the responsibility for mitigating 

impacts from existing noise and other nuisance -generating activities or uses on the proposed 

new noise -sensitive development. 

4.2.73  The Noise Assessment prepared by Ardent Consulting Engineers has proposed appropriate 

noise target limits for building services plant. No other details of plant or flue layouts are 

provided at this point, although the submitted plans do not show plant loca ted on the roof. 

Condition s 10 and 1 1 are proposed to ensure that noise from building services plant and 

flues are controlled. ↑ To contents 

4.2.74  The main concern is the potential impact on the amenity of the dwellings opposite the site 

access and loading bays on Knights Hill. The Noise Assessment has identified road traffic 

noise on Knights Hill as the dominant component of the noise environment. T he relatively low 

number of vehicle movements and associated loading activities predicted from the use of the 

self -storage facility are considered unlikely to cause any adverse noise impacts. It should be 

noted that daytime use only has been assumed for th e operation of the facility and it is 

therefore considered appropriate to condition the hours of operation ( 13) to limit the potential 

conflicts between the operation of the self -storage facility and the neighbouring residential 

occupiers. 

4.2.75  It is anticipated that cars and vans will form most of the traffic to the site. HGV’s will be used 

to collect the waste from the site. To prevent future intensification of the use of the site 

without further assessment, it is also recommended a condition c ontrolling the access of 

HGVs to the site is also applied (15).

Summary 

4.2.76  It considered that subject to conditions there would be no adverse impacts on neighbouring 

occupiers. 

# Transport 

4.2.77  Development plan policies seek to ensure that the impacts of development on the transport 

network are fully assessed and promote sustainable modes of travel. Paragraph 11 6 of the 

NPPF states that “development should only be prevented or refused on highways grounds if 

there would be an unacceptable impact on highway safety, or the residual cumulative impacts 

on the road network would be severe , taking into account all reasonable future scenarios .” 

Site context 

4.2.78  The site has a PTAL of 4 and is therefore considered to have good accessibility to public 

transport. 

Access / Highway Safety 

4.2.79  The re is no vehicular access to the Site currently. Vehicular, cycling, and pedestrian access is 

proposed to be taken from Knights Hill. 

4.2.80  Previous applications (in particular 22/04095/FUL and 08/01231/OUT) that were refused on 

highway safety grounds due to this location of the proposed access. The highway safety 

concerns were predominantly about 3 points: 

• Increased vehicular trip generation (both in number and size of vehicle); 

• Proximity of the pedestrian crossing to the north; and 

• Inadequate width of the proposed right turn lane. 

4.2.81  Knights Hill is a classified road (A215) and is subject to a 20mph speed limit. However, 

transport officers' observations suggest that the actual speed of vehicles is significantly 

higher. Recent speed surveys undertaken by the applicant confirm these observations 85th 

percentile speeds of 28.8mph and 27.9mph were recorded southbound and northbound 

respectively. ↑ To contents 

4.2.82  The proposed access has been designed based on the recorded 85th percentile speeds 

rather than the speed limit. A Stage 1 Road Safety Audit (RSA) has been undertaken ,

submitted and subsequentially assessed by Highway Officers, who have confirmed that th e

RSA hasn’t found any fundamental issue with the location of the proposed access 

4.2.83  There have been 12 recorded collisions on this section of Knight's Hill, from the Chapel Road 

to the Cheviot Road junctions inclusive. Of these, more than half of the casualties were 

classified as serious, potentially due to the higher speeds recorded on t his section of road 

than the speed limit allows. All of the collisions were recorded at or near junctions which 

indicates that turning movements are likely an issue. Although there would only relatively light 

traffic into and out of the site (discussed in the Trip Generation section below), the proposal 

would introduce another potential conflict point on a section of road that already experiences 

significantly higher speeds than the speed limits allows and has a history of collisions at 

junctions, many of w hich result in serious injury. Therefore, a contribution of £40,000 towards 

a scheme(s) to slow vehicles on this section of Knights Hill is requested to be secured by 

S106 deed .

Trip generation 

4.2.84  An estimate of the traffic generated by the proposal has been calculated by utilising 24hour 

surveys of another Shurgard site in London. 

4.2.85  This exercise found that there would be 83 two -way vehicular trips over the course of 24 

hours, based on the potential 7,927m2 of floor space should a mezzanine level be installed .

Of these, 49 would be cars, 25 would be Light Goods Vehicles, 6 would be O ther Goods 

Vehicles (1) , and 4 would be motorcycles. In the morning peak (08.00 - 09.00) there is 

projected to be 9 two -way vehicle movements and in there PM (17.00 -18.00) there is 

projected to be 7 two -way movements. These levels would not have an unaccepta ble impact 

on the local highway network. 

Car parking 

4.2.86  One general parking bay for visitors and one disabled persons bay are proposed, convenient 

to entrances of the self -storage element and the ancillary shop. 

4.2.87  In addition, a flexible and gated operational loading area is proposed outside the self -storage 

lobby area. This has been designed to accommodate cars and light vans, and tracking has 

been provided to demonstrate how parking and manoeuvring can occur in a safe and efficient 

manner. The applicant has confirmed that the operational loading area could accommodate 7 

cars and/or vans should the dema nd increas e in the future (wi th mezzanine floors installed). 

4.2.88  One EV charging point has been shown on the plans. A condition is recommended ( 32) so 

that this charging point is made available for use prior to occupation and retained as such for 

the lifetime of the development. 

4.2.89  A Car Parking Management Plan has been submitted, and which sets out how parking is to 

be managed so that it is only used by those permitted to do so, measures to ensure that 

parking facilities are used efficiently, and to prevent any unauthorised or obstr uctive parking. 

This is acceptable and a condition is imposed (3 2) so that the Car Parking Management Plan 

is adhered to for the lifetime of the development. 

Cycle parking 

4.2.90  The London Plan requires at least 16 long -stay (staff) and 8 short -stay (visitor/customer) 

cycle parking spaces for the maximum 7,927m2 of self -storage space proposed. ↑ To contents 

4.2.91  At least 25 per cent of the long -stay cycle parking provision should be of the most accessible 

type, such as Sheffield stands, of which 5 per cent of the total cycle parking provision should 

be designed and clearly designated for larger and adapted cycles. There should be a 

minimum spacing of 1m between the stands. A charge point should be provided for a 

minimum of 1 in 10 cycle parking spaces. 

4.2.92  Two shelters, each accommodating 5 Sheffield stands (providing 10 spaces) are shown on 

the plans. However, the spaces between the stands are less than the 1m recommended for 

standard cycles, and less than the 1.2m recommended for cargo bikes. Furthermore, the staff 

spaces need to be fully enclosed, ideally inside the building, to provide an appropriate level of 

security. The short -stay (customer) spaces should be convenient to the lobby area of the self -

store. 

4.2.93  Despite these minor shortcomings with the proposed cycle parking provision, it is accepted 

that there is sufficient space within the site for satisfactory cycle parking facilities to be 

provided by way of a pre -occupation condition (6). It is noted that the Planning Statement 

states that the proposal would require 3 -4 FTE staff to be on -site therefore the provision of 16 

cycle spaces for staff use as required by policy to cover all uses in the B2 -B8 range of Use 

Classes could be unneces sary. Instead, 4 long -stay spaces would suffice, in addition to the 8 

short -stay spaces for visitors. Suitable provision for cargo -bikes needs to be included. 

Travel plan 

4.2.94  A Workplace Travel Plan has been submitted and, considering the estimated number of staff, 

is acceptable. A condition is recommended (31) that the Travel Plan be adhered to for the 

lifetime of the development. A contribution towards monitoring of the Travel Plan would also 

be secured through the s106 agreement. 

Deliveries and servicing 

4.2.95  Up to 15 daily servicing vehicles are expected for the potential 7,927m2 of floorspace 

proposed. 

4.2.96  The Transport Statement and Delivery and Servicing Management Plan expect that all 

servicing is proposed to be undertaken on -site, off the public highway, with refuse stores 

located within easy access of the refuse vehicle waiting location. This is accepta ble, and 

swept paths have been provided showing how this could occur with a refuse vehicle being 

able to enter and exit the site in forward gear. 

4.2.97  A condition is recommended so that the Delivery and Servicing Management Plan (14) is 

adhered to for the lifetime of the development. 

Construction management 

4.2.98  The application is supported by an Outline Construction Logistics Plan, as per the 

expectations of Local Plan Policy T8(d). Indicative vehicle routing, programme and the 

estimated number of vehicle movements are included. The proposed measures contained 

th erein are generally acceptable however a detailed Construction Logistics Plan is 

recommended by way of a pre -commencement condition (9). Deliveries must be timed to 

avoid the highway peaks. 

Summary 

4.2.99  Subject to conditions and S106 deed , it is considered that the development would not result in 

an adverse impact on the surrounding highway or transport network. ↑ To contents 

# Trees, landscap ing and ecology 

4.2.100  Strategic and local policies require development to be designed positively to integrate 

existing trees and maximise landscaping , new tree planting and biodiversity improvement 

opportunities. Where retention of trees is shown not to be possible , adequate replacement 

planting on or near the same location should be secured .

Trees and landscaping 

4.2.101  LLP Policy Q10 seeks to retain trees of significant amenity, historic or ecological/habitat 

conservation value (Parts B and C); but notes at Part G, where it is imperative to remove 

trees, adequate replacement planting will be secured, and the amount and n ature of this will 

be calculated based on the existing value of the benefits of the trees removed, calculated 

using a cost/benefit tool, such as CAVAT, as set out in LP Policy G7 Part C. 

4.2.102  The Site is currently a vacant plot of land and a number of trees are present on the 

perimeters including 4 TPO trees (T2, T5, T10 and T11) within the Site, and one TPO tree 

close to the boundary (T1) .

> Figure 10: Location of trees in relation to the proposal

4.2.103  An updated Arboricultural Impact Assessment (AIA) was submitted. The report concludes 

that 12 trees will be removed as part of the development, 8 category C trees (T2, T4, T4a, T5, 

T6a, T7, T8 and T14) and 4 category B trees (T6 and group G5) . A ll of the other trees 

retained. A minimum of 12 new trees will be planted as part of the proposed development. 

4.2.104  Concern has been raised from the Arboricultural Officer regarding the longevity of Tree T9 

on Site without structural compromise or future pressure for removal. Further information was 

submitted regarding this, and whilst there are still some concerns, it is considered that a

policy -compliant outcome can be achieved through the imposition of a suite of arboricultural 

and landscape conditions .

4.2.105  These conditions (24 - 27) front -load evidence, restrict construction methodology, and 

secure monitoring and mitigation mechanisms proportionate to the foreseeable risk identified .↑ To contents 

4.2.106  A financial contribution, calculated using CAVAT based on the existing value of the trees 

on -site to be retained, would be secured through the S106 deed , in the instance that any of 

the retained trees fail within ten years following implementation of the developmen t. 

Urban greening and biodiversity 

4.2.107  LP Policy G1 states that development proposals should incorporate appropriate elements 

of green infrastructure that are integrated into London’s wider green infrastructure network. 

LP Policy G5 goes on to state that this should be done by incorporating measures such as 

high -quality landscaping (including trees), green roofs, green walls and nature -based 

sustainable drainage. 

Urban greening 

4.2.108  LP Policy G5 refers to the Urban Greening Factor (UGF) as a means to measure the 

amount of urban greening a development includes. This policy is supported by the Urban 

Greening Factor London Plan Guidance (LPG). The target for predominantly commercial 

deve lopments it is 0.3, however B2 and B8 uses are excluded. 

4.2.109  LP Policy G5 states: Whilst the target score of 0.3 does not apply to B2 and B8 uses, 

these uses will still be expected to set out what measures they have taken to achieve urban 

greening on -site and quantify what their UGF score is. 

4.2.110  The submitted UGF report indicates that the proposal would achieve a UGF of 0.48 ,

however this is reliant on securing a good and detailed soft landscaping scheme and as 

maximal an area of biodiverse green roof as possible . A condition requiring soft landscaping 

details would be secured by condition ( 26 )

Biodiversity 

4.2.111  LP Policy G6D states that development proposals should aim to secure biodiversity net 

gain (BNG). The Environment Act 2021 made a 10 per cent BNG mandatory for all 

developments, other than specific exemptions, from 12 February 2024 and for small sites 

from 2 April 2024. Furthermore, the NPPF requires development proposals to manage 

impacts on biodivers ity and aim to secure net biodiversity gain. 

4.2.112  LLP Policy EN1 and LP Policy G6 set out that development proposals should protect, 

enhance, create or manage nature conservation and biodiversity interest and promote 

measures to increase the quantity and quality of the Borough’s biodiversity and ecology, in 

accordance with the borough’s Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) and the Mayor’s Biodiversity 

Strategy. 

4.2.113  There are three ways in which a developer can achieve BNG; either on -site, off -site if all 

required BNG cannot be achieved on -site (through making physical gain on their own land or 

buying off -site credits), or through buying statutory off -site biodiversit y credits from the 

government. As such 10 per cent BNG can always be achieved, however the ways in which it 

is achieved differ. 

4.2.114  The BNG assessment report indicates that the proposed development will generate, 

based on the current baseline habitat value of the site, a net loss of -44.75% which translates 

into 2.17 habitat units. Any loss of a habitat must be replaced on a like -for -like or like -for -

better principle, and back on site, but the development cannot satisfy this requirement in 

terms of the loss of urban trees (medium distinctiveness) and areas of other neutral grassland 

(medium distinctiveness). ↑ To contents 

4.2.115  The application has made a good case to state that there is limited scope to secure all the 

required BNG on site with the current arrangement, due to the size of the proposed 

development area and limited amount of soft landscaping that can be provided for within the 

site boundary after the storage building and ancillary infrastructure is provided. 

4.2.116  This means the development in its current state will not meet the 10% BNG threshold on -

site . Whilst BNG is primarily dealt with through conditions, at this stage the developer has 

advised they are intending to create new habitats that are of more ecological value through 

offsite compensatory units in the form of offsite habitat banks in order to meet the BNG 

requirements. 

4.2.117  Compliance with the BNG requirements would be secured by way of a condition ( 38)

which will require the applicant to submit a BNG Plan prior to commencement of the approved 

development. The Plan should provide evidence of the ability of the development to deliver 

the required units of biodiversity gain on -site, or off -site through an acceptable offsetting 

scheme or the purchase of such units from a third -party provider. 

4.2.118  In conclusion, subject to conditions, it is considered the proposed development would 

comply with the aims and objectives of LP Policy G6, LLP Policy EN1, and the NPPF, and is 

considered acceptable, having regard to the impacts on ecology and biodiversity. 

# 4.3 Other planning considerations 

4.3.1  Other planning issues that are relevant to this scheme are: 

• Employment and training 

• Designing out crime 

• Flood risk and drainage 

• Air quality 

• Groundwater and land contamination 

• Fire safety 

# Employment and training 

4.3.2  LLP Policy ED15 (Employment and training states that planning obligations should be used to 

secure employment opportunities and apprenticeships arising from major developments, so 

that local residents are given access to the right skills training so that t hey can take 

advantage of opportunities created by new development. This includes the submission of a 

site -specific construction and end use Employment and Skills Plan (ESP), which will be 

secured as part of the S106 deed . The ESP would secure the followin g:

• Agreed Employment and Skills Plan for construction phase of development 

• Agreed Employment and Skills Plan for occupation phase of development 

• Adherence to Lambeth Council monitoring processes and 'in -lieu' compliance 

payments Agreed Employment and Skills Plans will set out targets and methodology 

for delivery of employment and skills outcomes for Lambeth residents. The Developer 

will be required to demonstrate Reasonable Endeavours to achieve: 

• 25% of all new jobs created by the development in the construction and end use 

phases to be secured for Lambeth residents including: 

• 1 apprenticeship per 1,000sq. m of development or 10 residential units 

• 1 paid supported employment placement (min. 6 months) per 2,500 sq. m. of 

development (occupation phase) ↑ To contents 

• Delivery of bespoke pre -employment training to enable access for Lambeth 

resident to opportunities created by the development - Engagement of local 

schools, colleges, and/or community organisations on the delivery of work 

experience, careers inspiration an d employability support for young people. 

4.3.3  The LLP sets out that a financial contribution is required which helps support and train those 

sections of the Lambeth workforce that are furthest from employment to enable them to 

access newly created employment opportunities which arise from the developm ent. The 

development has been calculated as a £ [tbc] contribution, which, in addition to the ESP will 

be secured within the S106 deed. An ESP will also be required and secured in the S106 

deed; this will relate to the occupation phase. 

# Designing out crime 

4.3.4  LP Policy D11 states that development should include measures to design out crime that (in 

proportion to the risk) deter terrorism, assist in the detection of terrorist activity and help 

mitigate its effects. Similarly, LLP Policy Q3 expects development to design out opportunistic 

crime, antisocial behaviour and fear of crime in a site -specific manner as well as address 

resilience to terrorism. 

4.3.5  To ensure that that the development is safe, Secured by Design accreditation is 

recommended as a condition ( 7). 

# Flood risk and drainage 

Flood risk 

4.3.6  LP Policy SI 12 requires development proposals to ensure that flood risk is minimised and 

mitigated, and that residual risk is addressed. This is continued in LLP Policy EN5. 

4.3.7  On the basis the site is at low risk of flooding from surface water, the LLFA raised no 

objections to the principle of the development. Condition 35 seeks to ensure that the 

development is carried out in accordance with the submitted Flood Risk Assessment. 

Drainage 

4.3.8  LLP Policy EN6 and LP Policy SI 13 requires development to utilise sustainable urban 

drainage systems (SUDS) unless there are practical reasons for not doing so. They also 

require proposals to achieve greenfield run -off rates and adequately manage surface water 

run -off. LP Policy SI 13 further sets out a drainage hierarchy to ensure that run -off water is 

managed as close to its source as possible and gives preference to green over grey features. 

4.3.9  The proposed development will include a biodiverse brown roof and permeable paving to 

intercept rainfall. An attenuation tank will be situated beneath the car parking area. 

4.3.10  The applicant has considered the London Plan drainage hierarchy and ruled out rainwater 

reuse due to limited potential for collection owing to the brown roof making up the majority of 

the site. It is noted that there will be limited demand for water due to the proposed use and 

the roof will also deliver benefits for biodiversity. 

4.3.11  An indicative maintenance plan has been provided, a condition (36) is recommen ded to 

ensure the final drainage system will function as intended for the lifetime of the development: 

# Air quality ↑ To contents 

4.3.12  There is a Lambeth wide Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and Lambeth is also covered 

by the Non -Road Mobile Machinery (NRMM) Low Emission Zone. 

4.3.13  LP Policy SI 1 recognises the need to tackle poor air quality, protect health and meet legal 

obligations. Paragraph 9.2 of the LLP states that Lambeth will apply London Plan Policy SI 1

to all development proposals in the borough. This states that d evelopment proposals should 

not lead to further deterioration of existing poor air quality, create any new areas that exceed 

air quality limits, or delay the date at which compliance will be achieved in areas that are 

currently in exceedance of legal limit s, or create unaccep table risk of high levels of exposure 

to poor air quality. To meet these requirements, t his policy requires proposals to be at least 

‘Air Quality Neutral’. Guidance on this is provided by the GLA in their Air Quality Neutral 

London Plan Guidance (LPG). 

Construction phase 

4.3.14  The development will be ‘air quality neutral’ for the construction phase . The air quality 

assessment also considered risks of dust from demolition and construction works causing 

soiling to the locality. This is assessed in accordance with guidance from the institute of air 

quality management. This part of the assessment recommen ded measures to mitigate the 

risk of dust soiling, this is recommended as a condition (9). 

Design and operational phase 

4.3.15  The proposed development trip rate is below the calculated total TEB. Therefore, the 

proposed development is considered to be better than ‘air quality neutral’ in terms of transport 

emissions. A condition is recommended ( 8) to ensure the development is carried out in 

accordance with the approved document. 

# Groundwater and land contamination 

4.3.16  In accordance with LLP Policy EN4 proposals should include an assessment of existing 

ground conditions and identify appropriate remedial measures for any contaminated land prior 

to development commencing. It further states “ Where contamination exists, a remediation 

strategy should be submitted to the council for approval and implemented by a suitably 

qualified person prior to development commencing ”. 

4.3.17  A Geo -Environmental Assessment has been provided. This gives details of a limited site 

investigation which has not identified any significant issues. Having regard to presence of fly -

tipped materials and that piling is proposed it is considered that furthe r investigation is 

required to confirm there are no significant contamination issues. 

4.3.18  The demolition, site clearance and excavations at the site may lead to the exposure of 

potentially hazardous materials and soils. A condition ( 37) is prop osed to ensure any risks are 

identified, assessed, and managed 

# Fire safety 

4.3.19  As required by LP Policy D12, a Fire Statement which is produced by an independent and 

accredited specialist has been submitted. Officers have undertaken an assessment on the 

document’s compliance with the requirements of LP Policy D12 .

4.3.20  Officers are satisfied that the submitted Fire Statement provides sufficient information for 

planning stage and recommend condition 33 is imposed on the planning permission to ensure 

that the strategy is implemented, and the development is carried out in accordance with this 

document. ↑ To contents 

# 4.4 Planning obligations and CIL 

# Planning obligations 

4.4.1  LLP Policy D4 and Annex 9 sets out the Council’s policy in relation to seeking planning 

obligations and the charging approaches for various types of obligation. For contributions that 

are not covered by Annex 9, the Council’s approach to calculating contributions is guided by 

the Affordable Workspace SPD ( adopted 2022) .

4.4.2  The planning obligations that are proposed are considered necessary to make the 

development acceptable in planning terms, are directly related to the development and are 

fairly and reasonably related in kind and in scale to the development. They are theref ore 

compliant with the requirements of Regulation 122 of the Community Infrastructure Levy 

Regulations 2010. 

4.4.3  The proposed obligations to be secured through the S106 deed are as follows: 

Item  Details 

Energy and sustainability  Carbon offsetting payment £224 (estimated) and Carbon 

monitoring report 

Transport and accessibility 

£40,000 towards reducing speeding measures 

Creation of a vehicle access on Knights Hill 

Travel Plan Monitoring 

Employment and skills  Employment and Skills Plan and contribution £[tbc ]

Ecology  BNG Monitoring fee £[tbc ]

Trees 

A financial contribution, calculated using CAVAT based on 

the existing value of the trees on -site to be retained, to be 

secured if the retained trees fail within ten years following 

implementation of the development, towards canopy 

replacement in the area 

Other  Monitoring fee (capped at 5% of all financial contributions) 

NB – All financial contributions shall be index -linked 

# CIL 

4.4.4  If the application is approved and the development is implemented, a liability to pay the 

Lambeth Community Infrastructure Levy (CIL) will arise. 

4.4.5  Expenditure of the majority of a future CIL receipt will be applied towards Borough 

infrastructure needs in accordance with the applicable policies and procedures relating to 

expenditure decisions. 

4.4.6  Allocation of CIL monies to particular infrastructure projects is not a matter for consideration 

in the determination of planning applications. 

4.4.7  The estimated Lambeth CIL for this development is £ 0. The estimated Mayoral CIL for this 

development is £ 28 6,266.91 . Please note that these CIL figures are indicative and will be 

confirmed if permission is granted. ↑ To contents 

# 4.5 Equality duty and human rights 

4.5.1  The beginning of the Agenda Pack sets out the legislative background to equalities and 

human rights considerations and the approach that the decision -maker needs to take .

Reference should be made to those materials. 

4.5.2  Officers do not consider that the proposal would have any adverse impact on people with 

protected characteristics or that the rights of individuals under the European Convention on 

Human Rights would be infringed by the proposed developmen t.

4.5.3  If Members disagree with officers’ assessment and consider that there would be an impact 

not identified by officers, or that the impact identified would be greater than as set out by 

officers, they should consider whether the weight to be given to that imp act when considering 

the planning balance is such as to mean that planning permission should be refused. 

# 4.6 Planning balance and conclusion 

# Compliance with the development plan 

4.6.1  Section 70(2) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 states that in dealing with an 

application for planning permission the local planning authority shall have regard to the 

provisions of the development plan, so far as material to the application , a post -examination 

draft neighbourhood development plan, any local finance considerations (as defined in 

section 70(4), to include CIL receipts) and to any other material considerations . Section 38(6) 

of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 requires p lanning decisions to be made 

in accordance with the development plan unless material considerations indicate otherwise. 

4.6.2  When assessing whether an application complies with the development plan, it is necessary 

to look at the development plan as a whole. There may be policies that pull in different 

directions. It is necessary to reach a judgement about whether, when looked at overall, the 

application amounts to a departure from the development plan . Factors relevant to this 

judgement can include the number of policies not complied with, the extent of any non -

compliance, how up to date various policies are , and whether a polic y relates to the principle 

of development or a more minor aspect .

4.6.3  The proposal involves the erection of two -storey building to provide a self -storage facility (Use 

Class B8), associated parking and landscaping. 

4.6.4  The proposed development complies with development plan policies relating to land use, 

design, transport, heritage and amenity. The proposed development does not fully comply 

with development plan policies relating to trees and BNG. However, the report sets out that 

these matters can be sufficiently addressed with conditions and measures within the Section 

106 deed .

4.6.5  When the development plan is looked at as a whole , in officers’ assessment the proposal 

accords with it . The development plan policies identified as relevant to the assessment of the 

application are all complied with. 

Heritage harm 

4.6.6  As set out earlier in the report, the proposal would not result in any harm to the significance of 

any designated or non -designated heritage assets. In those circumstances, there is no 

requirement to undertake a balancing exercise between heritage harm and public benefits. ↑ To contents 

4.6.7  If Members disagree with officers’ assessment in respect of heritage impact , they will need to 

identify the level of harm they consider would be caused and apply the test in the relevant 

NPPF paragraph. 

Equalities and human rights 

4.6.8  The position as regards equalities and /or human rights impacts is addressed in section 4.7 of 

the report .

# Conclusion 

4.6.9  In officers’ assessment the application complies with the development plan when looked at 

overall .

4.6.10  No material considerations have been identified that outweigh the merits of the proposal. 

Officers are therefore recommending that the application is approved. 

# Recommendations 

1.  Resolve to grant conditional planning permission subject to the completion of a satisfactory 

deed under Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 containing the planning 

obligations as set out in this report, addenda and/or PAC minutes. 

2.  Agree to delegate authority to the Director of Climate, Planning and Transport to: (a). Finalise 

the recommended conditions as set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes; and (b).

Negotiate, agree and finalise the planning obligations as set out in this report, addend a and/or 

PAC minutes pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 .

3.  In the event that the Committee resolves to refuse planning permission and there is a 

subsequent appeal, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport , having regard to this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes, to propose planning 

conditions and to negotiate and complete a document containing obligations pursuant to 

Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 in order to meet the requirement of 

the Planning Inspector. 

4.  In the event that a satisfactory Section 106 deed is not completed within six months of the date 

of the Committee meeting, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning 

and Transport to refuse planning permission for failure to enter in to a Section 106 deed 

providing for the obligations considered necessary to make the development acceptable in 

planning terms as identified in this report, addenda and/or the PAC minutes. ↑ To contents 

# 5. Appendices 

# Appendix 1 – Draft Decision Notice ↑ To contents ↑ To contents 

5.1 ↑ To contents ↑ To contents ↑ To contents ↑ To contents ↑ To contents ↑ To contents ↑ To contents ↑ To contents ↑ To contents 

# Appendix 2 – List of main planning policies 

London Plan (2021) 

GG1 Building strong and inclusive communities 

GG2 Making the best use of land 

GG5 Growing a good economy 

GG6 Increasing efficiency and resilience 

D1 London’s form, character and capacity for growth 

D2 Infrastructure requirements for sustainable densities 

D3 Optimising site capacity through the design -led approach 

D4 Delivering good design 

D5 Inclusive design 

D11 Safety, security and resilience to emergency 

D12 Fire safety 

D13 Agent of Change 

D14 Noise 

E4 Land for industry, logistics and services to support London’s economic function 

E5 Strategic Industrial Locations (SIL) 

E6 Locally Significant Industrial Sites 

E7 Industrial intensification, co -location and substitution 

E11 Skills and opportunities for all 

HC1 Heritage conservation and growth 

G1 Green infrastructure 

G2 London’s Green Belt 

G4 Open space 

G5 Urban greening 

G6 Biodiversity and access to nature 

G7 Trees and woodlands 

SI 1 Improving air quality 

SI 2 Minimising greenhouse gas emissions 

SI 3 Energy infrastructure 

SI 4 Managing heat risk 

SI 5 Water 

SI 6 Digital connectivity infrastructure 

SI 7 Reducing waste and supporting the circular economy 

SI 8 Waste capacity and net waste self -suffic iency 

SI 12 Flood risk management 

SI 13 Sustainable drainage 

T1 Strategic approach to transport 

T2 Healthy Streets 

T3 Transport capacity, connectivity 

T4 Assessing and mitigating transport impacts 

T5 Cycling 

T6 Car parking 

T7 Deliveries, servicing and construction 

DF1 Delivery of the Plan and Planning Obligations 

M1 Monitoring ↑ To contents 

Regional Guidance 

Relevant publications from the GLA include: 

• Accessible London SPG (2014) 

• Air Quality Neutral LPG (202 3)

• Air Quality Positive LPG (202 3)

• ‘Be Seen’ energy monitoring guidance LPG (2021) 

• Circular Economy Statements LPG (2022) 

• The Control of Dust and Emissions During Construction and Demolition SPG (2014) 

• Digital Connectivity Infrastructure LPG (2024) 

• Energy Assessment Guidance (2022) 

• Draft Fire safety LPG (2022) 

• Draft Industrial Land and Uses LPG (2023) 

• Optimising site capacity: A design -led approach LPG (202 3)

• Planning for Equality and Diversity in London SPG (2007 )

• Social Infrastructure SPG (2015) 

• Sus tainable Transport, Walking and Cycling LPG (202 2)

• Urban Greening Factor LPG (202 3)

• Whole Life -Cycle Carbon Assessments LPG (2022) 

Lambeth Local Plan 2020 - 2035 (2021) 

D1 Delivery and monitoring 

D2 Presumption in favour of sustainable development 

D3 Infrastructure 

D4 Planning obligations 

ED3 Key Industrial and Business Areas (KIBAs) 

ED15 Employment and training 

T1 Sustainable travel 

T2 Walking 

T3 Cycling 

T4 Public transport infrastructure 

T6 Parking 

T7 Servicing 

T9 Digital connectivity infrastructure 

EN1 Open space, green infrastructure and biodiversity 

EN3 Decentralised energy 

EN4 Sustainable design and construction 

EN5 Flood risk 

EN6 Sustainable drainage systems and water management 

EN7 Sustainable waste management 

Q1 Inclusive environments 

Q2 Amenity 

Q3 Safety, crime prevention and counter terrorism 

Q5 Local distinctiveness 

Q6 Urban design: public realm 

Q7 Urban design: new development 

Q8 Design quality: construction detailing ↑ To contents 

Q9 Landscaping 

Q10 Trees 

Q12 Refuse and recycling 

Q13 Cycle storage 

Q15 Boundary treatments 

Q17 Advertisements and signage 

Q23 Non -designated heritage assets: local heritage list 

PN7 West Norwood/Tulse Hill 

Local Guidance / Supplementary Planning Documents (SPD) 

Relevant local guidance and SPDs for Lambeth include: 

• Design Guide SPD (202 3)

• Advertising & Signage Guidance (2016) 

• Parking Survey Guidance Note 

• Refuse & Recycling Storage Design Guide (2022) 

• Waste an d Recycling Storage and Collection Requirements – Technical Specification 

for Architects and Developers (2023) 

Other guidance 

• BRE Site layout planning for daylight and sunlight (Third edition, 2022) ↑ To contents 

# Appendix 3 – List of consultees 

External consultees 

Thames Water 

Transport for London (TfL) 

Internal consultees 

Air Quality Officer 

Arboricultural Officer 

Conservation and Design 

Energy and Sustainability (Blewburton) 

Enterprise/Employment 

Environmental Health (RSS) 

Flood Risk 

Highways 

Landscape 

Planning Policy 

Transport 

Waste Contractor 

Other consultees 

Amenity groups
