Title: 1 Cleevedale Place London Clapham Common and Abbeville 2402311FUL.pdf

URL Source: https://moderngov.lambeth.gov.uk/documents/s173128/PAC%20report%20-%201%20Cleevedale%20Place%20WTU.1%202402311FUL.pdf

Published Time: Tue, 27 Jan 2026 12:00:00 GMT

Number of Pages: 37

Markdown Content:
LAMBETH PLANNING APPLCATIONS COMMITTEE 

Case  24/02311/FUL 

Address  1 Cleevedale Place, London SW4 9FA Application for Planning Permission 

Application ref: 24 /02311 /FUL 

Site: 1 Cleevedale Place, London SW4 9FA 

Ward: Clapham Common and Abbeville 

Description : Alterations within existing basement (Level -1) including amended 

parking and cycle storage layout for use of part of ground f loor and 

basement (Level -1) within Building E -F as gymnasium Class E(d). 

Applicant: Thornton Park London Ltd 

Agent: Newmark 

Case officer: Shane Baker 

Drawing nos. See appendix 1 

Reason for PAC referral: The application is for alterations to a building where the floorspace 

to be provided is 1,000 sqm or more. 

Recommendation s:

1.  Resolve to grant conditional planning permission subject to the completion of a deed under 

Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 containing the planning obligations as 

set out in this report , addend a and/or PAC minutes .

2.  Agree to delegate authority to the Director of Climate, Planning and Transport to: (a). Finalise 

the recommended conditions as set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes; and (b).

Negotiate, agree and finalise the planning obligations as set out in this report, addend a and/or 

PAC minutes pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 .

3.  In the event that the Committee resolves to refuse planning permission and there is a 

subsequent appeal, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport , having regard to this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes, to propose planning 

conditions and to negotiate and complete a deed containing obligations pursuant to Section 

106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 in order to meet the requirement of the 

Planning Inspector. 

4.  In the event that the Section 106 deed is not completed within six months of the date of the 

Committee meeting , delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport to refuse planning permission for failure to enter into a Section 106 deed providing 

for the obligations considered necessary to make the development acceptable in planning 

terms as identified in this report, addend a and/or the PAC minutes. CONTENTS 

Section no.  Section description 

1 Summary of application 

1.1  Executive summary 

1.2  Relevant designations 

1.3  Key information 

1.4  Summary of c onsultation 

2 Site context and proposal 

2.1  Site description 

2.2  Proposal description 

2.3  Relevant planning history 

3 Consultation and engagement 

3.1  Application consultation - public consultation 

3.2  Application consultation – external , internal and other consultees 

4 Application assessment 

4.1  Planning policie s

4.2  Main planning considerations 

4.3  Other planning considerations 

4.4  Planning obligations and CIL 

4.5  Equality duty and human rights 

4.6  Planning balance and conclusion 

4.7  Recommendations 

5 Appendices 

1 - Draft Decision Notice 

2 - List of main planning policies 

3 - List of consultees ↑ To contents 

# 1. Summary of application 

# 1.1 Executive summary 

1.1.1  This application seeks full planning permission for the of use of part of the ground floor and 

basement of Block E – F within the wider Thornton Park development, Clapham, from a 

consented waste transfer unit (sui generis) to a gymnasium falling within Use Class E(d), 

together with associated internal reconfiguration and minor external alterations .

1.1.2  The site forms part of a partially completed, residential -led mixed -use development. No 

changes to the building’s footprint, height or massing are proposed, and the works are 

confined to internal areas with limited alterations to the building façade. 

1.1.3  The main planning considerations relate to the loss of a safeguarded waste site, the 

acceptability of the proposed gym use in this location, and the impacts on design, amenity, 

transport and sustainability. 

1.1.4  The loss of the consented waste transfer unit is acceptable in this instance as appropriate 

compensatory waste capacity has been provided , supported by evidence and is also proposed 

to be secured through a section 106 obligation. The proposed gym use has been subject to a 

sequential test which demonstrates that there are no sequentially preferable sites within 

designated town centre or edge -of -centre locations, and the use is compatible with the w ider 

Thornton Park development and amenity of the area. 

1.1.5  Other planning matters, including design, amenity, transport, energy and sustainability, flood 

risk, air quality and fire safety, have been assessed and found to be acceptable .

1.1.6  The proposal is considered to comply with the development plan when taken as a whole, and 

officers recommend that planning permission be granted subject to conditions and completion 

of a section 106 deed .

# 1.2 Relevant designations 

Type of designation  Applicable designation 

Waste  Safeguard waste site 

Flood Zone  Flood Zone 1 

# 1.3 Key information 

# 1.3.1 Site area 

Total site area (sqm)  Total site area (hectares(ha)) 

3,874  0.3874 

# 1.3.2 Floorspace comparison 

Use description  Use class  Floorspace ( sqm )↑ To contents 

(Gross Internal Area) 

Existing  Nil ( consented space 

designed for waste tra nsfer )

Sui Generis  1,164 

Proposed  Gym  E(d)  1, 341 

# 1.3.3 

Car Parking 

Spaces 

(General) 

Car Parking 

Spaces 

(Blue Badge) 

%

EVCP  Bicycle Spaces 

Short stay  Long stay 

Existing  4 1 100%  14 (adjacent to 

unit) 

Pooled with 

other 

commercial 

Proposed  3 2 100%  9 (adjacent to 

unit )

2 (for gym) 

# 1.3.4 Environmental performance 

Policy target  Proposed 

Energy 

Percentage of on -site carbon 

savings beyond Part L of 

Building Regulations (2021) 

35%  Total  49 %

Residential  N/A 

Non -

residential 

49 %

Percentage of on -site carbon 

savings achieved through 

energy efficiency measures 

Residential - 10% 

Non -residential - 15% 

Total  6% 

Residential  N/A 

Non -

residential 

6%

Off -site reduction (%) and/or 

carbon offset contribution 

Shortfall to net -zero 

carbon target 

£220,223 

Unregulated carbon emissions  Major developments 

should calculate and 

minimise unregulated 

carbon emissions 

Information submitted 

Sustainability 

BREEAM score  Excellent  Excellent (target) 

Urban Greening Factor (UGF)  0.3  N/A 

Biodiversity Net Gain (BNG)  10%  N/A ↑ To contents 

# 1.3.5 Legal services clearance 

Name / 

position 

Lambeth 

department 

Date sent  Date 

received 

Report 

cleare d

Comments 

in para: 

Sam 

Woodhead 

Legal 

Services 

09.01.2026  12.01.2026  12.01.202  Throughout 

document 

# 1.4 Summary of c onsultation 

1.4.1  41 5 properties were consulted on the application. There were no responses. ↑ To contents 

# 2. Site c ontext and proposal 

# 2.1 Site description 

2.1.1  The application site (“Site”) relates to parts of the ground floor and basement of a partly 

completed building within the wider Thornton Park development (previously known as 44 

Clapham Common Southside) . Thornton Park site is a residential -led mixed use development 

comprising 294 homes and commercial uses (including 8,170 sqm of office space ) with 

basement level car parking and landscaping. 

2.1.2  The wider development scheme is only partly completed as the original building contractor 

went into administration and construction activity was paused. Construction work has now re -

commenced and new work, including rectification of some earlier work and completion of 

building s is underway. 

2.1.3  The consented development include d an area within the basement of Block E – F for a waste 

transfer unit (1,164 sqm). The basement has been built (to shell and core stage) , but the waste 

transfer unit (“WTU”) has not operated . Block E – F is located at the front of the Site and 

include s commercial office space and housing. 

2.1.4  The Site is accessed by Cle evedale Place, which leads to Clapham Common South Side. 

Housing of the Notre Dame Estate adjoins the north west side of the wider site, with Lambeth 

College to the west and south west and Elms Academy to the south .

2.1.5  The Site is not with within a conservation area and has no heritage assets. It has relatively 

good public transport accessibility with a P ublic Transport Accessibility (“PTAL”) rating of 4 

covering most of the Site. Clapham Common Underground Station is also within walking 

distance with Overground services on Clapham High Street, and good bus services. 

2.1.6  The Site was previously in commercial use that included a waste facility (hazardous and 

clinical waste) and part of the wider site is safeguarded for a wast e site in the Lambeth Local 

Plan 2021 (“LLP”) (0.11 hectare). 

Figure 1: Block layout of wider consented Thornton Park development ↑ To contents 

Figure 2: Consented Block E – F (north elevation) 

# 2.2 Proposal description 

2.2.1  Full planning permission is sought fo r use of part of the existing basement and ground floor of 

a building, known as Bloc k E – F, as a gymnasium (Use Class E( d)) . Minor amendments to the 

basement and ground floor of the consented building on the Site are also proposed . The 

building is part of the wider Thornton Park development that has been partially completed. 

2.2.2  The proposed works to the Block E – F would reconfigure the basement and a small part of 

the ground floor to allow it to be used as a gym that is open to the public . The gym entrance 

lobby is proposed to the ground floor with stairs and a lift to the main gym area in the 

basement in place of the consented WTU lobby . No c hanges are proposed to the consented 

building footprint, massing, or vehicular access arrangements, with access to the basement of 

Block E – F remaining via the existing ramp. 

2.2.3  The internal reconfiguration of the basement and ground floor, would amend parking, refuse 

and cycle facilities, and structural support , and includes associated changes to ground -floor 

doorways and façade elements (canopy and spandrel panels ).

2.2.4  There are no physical changes to the design or uses of other buildings within the wider 

consented scheme. ↑ To contents 

Figure 3: Proposed part of ground floor – gym entrance lobby (gym in mauve colour) 

Figure 3: Proposed basement level (gym in mauve colour) 

2.2.5  The submitted drawings and documents for the application can be found at  24/02311/FUL 

# 2.2.6 Amendments 

2.2.7  Minor amendments were made to the original ly submitted application relating to updated 

structural requirements and parking, servicing, cycle provision and associated ground -floor 

façade and access arrangements. The Site plan submitted with the application was also 

marginally change d to ensure accuracy and the was a further consultation undertaken. 

# 2.3 Relevant planning history 

# 2.3.1 Application site 

2.3.1.1  The planning application history of the Site can be found at  Simple Search ↑ To contents 

Planning applications 

2.3.1.2  The Site has an extensive planning history; relevant applications are outlined below :

2.3.1.3  17/00605/FUL - Application Permitted - Decision date: 29.03.2018 

Demolition of the existing buildings and the re -development of the site incorporating the 

erection of six buildings comprised of basement and lower ground floor levels, ranging from 

four to 10 storeys above ground, landscaped gardens, public square (587sq m), car parking 

and associated works; for a mixed use scheme comprised of a waste transfer facility (1,164 

sqm GIA) at basement level, B1 office accommodation (3,696sqm GIA) and A3 café (117sqm 

GIA); and the provision of up to 297 residential units 

2.3.1.4  19/00406/NMC - Application Permitted - Decision date: 18.09.2019 

Non -material amendment of Planning Permission 17/00605/FUL 

Amendments : Amend uses , alterations to basement and parking arrangements, internal and 

elevation adjustments across several blocks, changes to residential layouts 

2.3.1.5  20/01436/VOC - Application Permitted - Decision date: 23.12.2021 

Application under s ection 73 to vary condition s of Planning Permission 17/00605/FUL 

Amendments: A djustments floor heights to add extra floors in buildings C, D, and E, reduction 

in overall height for buildings A –D, and changes to elevations and internal layouts. 

Residential units relocated within the scheme, while 4,429 sqm of flexible B1 commercial 

space was introduced in Buildings E and F. Other changes comprise alterations to access 

ramps, extensions to floors 1 –5, modified site levels, a smaller basement with fewer parking 

spaces, and a reduction in the Waste Transfer facility size 

2.3.1.6  20/02186/NMC - Application Permitted - Decision date: 24.07.2020 

Application for a non -material amendment following a grant of planning permission 

17/00605/FUL 

Amended development description (removing floor space figures) 

2.3.1.7  22/00685/NMC - Application Permitted - Decision date: 05.07.2022 

Application for a non -material amendment of Planning Permission ref: 20/01436/VOC 

Amendments: Added columns, modified sixth -floor footprint, and enlarged basement for plant 

room requirements 

2.3.1.8  22/02600/NMC - Application Permitted - Decision date: 27.10.2022 

Application for a non -material amendment following a grant of planning permission 

17/00605/FUL 

Amendments: replacing glass balustrades with metal for fire compliance, reorganizing plant 

and AOVs, minor elevation and fenestration changes, provision of three accessible parking 

bays and removal/relocation of substations, adjustments to PV panel layouts and landsca ping ↑ To contents 

to improve fire strategy and amenity space, and revisions to conditions relating to fit -out, 

materials, noise, BREEAM certification, and Secured by Design. 

2.3.1.9  23/02882/NMC - Application Permitted - Decision dat e: 03.10.2023 

Application for a non -material amendment of Planning Permission 20/01436/VOC 

Amendments: Amend Conditions 22 and 86 and introduce Condition 87 relating to the fit -out 

of the waste transfer unit under planning permission 2 

2.3.1.10  22/04004/VOC - Application Withdrawn - Decision dat e: 13 .1 2.2023 

Application under section 73 to vary conditions of planning permission 20/01436/VOC 

Amendment: c hange of use of the Basement -1 Level and part Ground Floor from a Waste 

Transfer Unit (sui generis) to Class E (Gym (E(d)). 

2.3.1.11  23/00645/VOC - Decision date: Pending section 106 agreement 

Application under section 73 to vary conditions of Planning Permissio n 17/00605/FUL 

Amendments : Conversion of all approved market build to rent dwellings within Building B to 

intermediate affordable housing. 

# 2.3.2 Adjoining sites 

2.3.2.1  The following planning application history of the adjoining site is relevant: 

Lambeth College 

2.3.2.2  22 /0 3713 /FU L - Resolution to grant permission 27 .02 .2024 (s106 to be completed) 

Demolition of the existing college buildings and the erection of seven buildings for residential 

use, nursery use, and a Gateway education facility 

2.3.2.3  25/03234/FUL - Pending 

Demolition of the sports hall located in the north wing of ‘Block A’ at Lambeth College and the 

construction of 4 -storey extension comprising additional educational floorspace and the 

provision of cycle parking and other associated work ↑ To contents 

# 3. Consultation and engagement 

# 3.1 Application consultation - public consultation 

3.1.1  Public consultation was undertaken in accordance with statutory and Council requirements. 

3.1.2  Letters were sent to a total of 414 properties surrounding the Site . A site notice was posted on 

13 .12 .20 24 , and a press notice was posted on 13 .12 .20 24 .

3.1.3  There were no responses. 

3.1.4  Owing to a minor change in the site plan for the application, there was a second consultation 

from 16 October 2025. No responses were received from neighbours. 

# 3.2 Application consultation – external , internal and other 

# consultees 

# 3.2.1 External consultees 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Environment Agency 

No comments.  Noted. 

Greater London Authority (GLA) 

The loss of the waste site is acceptable 

based on the evidence submitted and there 

is no longer a strategic objection in principle 

to the use of the space for alternative uses. 

The provision of a gym will be a 

complementary use for the residential and 

office led development, as well as the wider 

local community whilst also activating the 

space .

London Plan Policy SI9 on land use 

principles related to waste are relevant to 

this application. In this instance it has been 

demonstrated that compensatory waste 

capacity has been secured to justify the loss 

of this safeguarded waste site, which 

satisfies the requirements of London Plan 

policy .

Funding for implementation and monitoring 

of the Gym Travel Plan should be secured in 

the S106 Agreement. 

No ted. 

Design out Crime officer ↑ To contents 

No comments.  Noted. 

Transport for London 

No comments.  Noted. 

London Underground 

No comments.  Noted. 

London Fire Brigade 

No comments.  Noted. 

# 3.2.2 Internal consultees 

Summary of comments  Officer response 

Energy and Sustainability ( Bio -Regional )

Further information was sought in respect of 

carbon offset, BREAAM, overheating, 

connections to a heat network and greening. 

The applicant provided clarifications to 

respond to comments received. A section 

106 planning obligation for a carbon offset 

contribution to ensure the development is 

‘zero carbon’ is recommended and there is a 

condition in respect of ensuring BREEAM 

performance . See section 4.2.4. 

Environmental Health ( RSS )

The change of use will significantly reduce 

the number vehicle movements, including 

heavy goods vehicles, that would have been 

associated with the waste transfer use. The 

gymnasium development will be 

predominantly car free and will be air quality 

neutral. There should be no air quality 

impacts arising from the change of use. 

The gymnasium will be located in the 

basement with the ground floor commercial 

area, residential lobby and communal 

amenity space above. The construction of 

the building and the separation from the 

upper residential floors should mitigate any 

internal noise transmission from the 

gymnasium activities. 

A draft Visitor Management Plan has been 

provided, and it is considered that a suitable 

Noted. A c ondition to secure a ppropriate 

management of the gym is recommended 

Proposed p arking is very limited , whilst the 

vehicle ramp is located at the front of the 

Site, well away from neighbours. Therefore, 

disturbance to neighbours is not expected 

and no controls for hours of opening are 

necessary. ↑ To contents 

operational management plan should be 

secured through condition. 

Hours of operation appear to be unrestricted. 

It is for the local planning authority to 

determine hours of operation having regard 

to relevant local plan policies. Use of the 

vehicle ramp at times when the waste 

transfer use was not intended to be 

operational may be an issue if gym users are 

able to access the basement parking. 

Alternatively, a condition limiting opening 

times could be imposed if 24 -hour use is not 

deemed appropriate in this location. 

Employment and Skills 

In line with LLP Policy ED15, the following 

commitments will be secured by the 

development: 

- A financial contribution to Lambeth Council 

based on formula in the LLP 

- Agreed Employment and Skills Plan for 

construction phase of development 

- Agreed Employment and Skills Plan for 

occupation phase of development 

- Adherence to Lambeth Council monitoring 

processes and 'in -lieu' compliance payments 

Agreed Employment and Skills Plans will set 

out targets and methodology for delivery of 

employment and skills outcomes for 

Lambeth residents. The Developer will be 

required to demonstrate Reasonable 

Endeavours to achieve: 

- 25% of all new jobs created by the 

development in the construction and end use 

phases to be secured for Lambeth residents 

including: 

o 1 apprenticeship per 1,000sq. m of 

development or 10 residential units 

o 1 paid supported employment placement 

(min. 6 months) per 2,500 sq. m. of 

development (occupation phase) 

o Delivery of bespoke pre -employment 

training to enable access for Lambeth 

resident to opportunities created by the 

development 

As the subject premises has been completed 

to shell and core, major construction work is 

complete . The consented WTU was to 

accommodate 10 FTE on the site in addition 

to drivers based off -site (the former WTU 

that was similar in size had 38 drivers) ,

though no end -user had been agreed. 

The consent for the wider scheme includes 

an Employment and Skills Plan that secured 

job and training opportunities for Lambeth 

residents, including apprenticeships, as well 

as a contribution of £106,757.35 for th ese 

purpose s. It is recommended that the agreed 

commitments for the wider site be applied to 

this proposal and a section 106 planning 

obligation has been recommended in this 

regard. ↑ To contents 

- Engagement of local schools, colleges, 

and/or community organisations on the 

delivery of work experience, careers 

inspiration and employability support for 

young people .

Parks & Open Spaces 

No objection.  Noted. 

Development Infrastructure 

No comment.  Noted. 

Highways 

No comment.  Noted. 

Planning Policy 

Loss of the permitted waste transfer unit 

would only be supported if appropriate 

compensatory capacity was provided in 

appropriate locations elsewhere in the 

borough. An agreement between the 

applicant and Powerday (Brixton) for a 

transfer of 1,181 tonnes per annum of waste 

capacity at this site has been secured. Whilst 

it is noted that the capacity identified at the 

Powerday site may not represent true 

additionality (as the capacity already 

theoretically exists), in these sit e-specific 

circumstances, the p roposals are considered 

to address London Plan policy in this 

instance. To comply with Local Plan Policy 

EN7, compensatory provision should be at or 

above the same level of the waste hierarchy 

of that which is lost. 

The methodology of the sequential test (for 

gym use) including the area of search 

appears appropriate, and an appropriate 

degree of flexibility has been demonstrated 

in the size of site to be examined. The 

sequential test has been passed. 

A section 106 planning obligation is 

recommended to secure details of 

arrangements for compensatory waste 

capacity within the borough as proposed. 

Transport 

Cycle parking, car parking and servicing 

arrangements are acceptable in principle. 

The revised short -stay cycle parking, while 

Recommended conditions are included in the 

report. See Section 4.2.6 below. ↑ To contents 

reduced in number, is safer, more usable 

and adequately supplemented by wider site 

provision. 

The revised basement car parking provision, 

including increased disabled spaces is 

satisfactory. Updated Parking Management 

and Delivery and Servicing Plans can be 

secured by condition. Overall, the proposals 

are acceptable from a transport and parking 

perspective. 

Active Travel Coordinator 

Comments made in relation to format and 

measurements of Travel Plan. 

Appropriate amendments were made to the 

proposed Travel Plan. 

Waste Contractor 

No objection.  Noted. ↑ To contents 

# 4. Application assessment 

# 4.1 Planning policies 

4.1.1  Section 38(6) of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 requires planning decisions 

to be made in accordance with the development plan unless material considerations indicate 

otherwise. 

4.1.2  The development plan for the Site is the London Plan 2021 ( “LP ”) and the Lambeth Local Plan 

2021 ( “LLP ”).

4.1.3  The National Planning Policy Framework ( “NPPF ”) was last revised in 202 4. This document 

sets out the Government’s planning policies for England including the presumption in favour of 

sustainable development. It is a material consideration in the determination of all applications. 

4.1.4  The application has been considered against all relevant national policies and development 

plan policies, as well as any relevant guidance. A list of the main relevant policies and 

guidance has been set out in Appendix 2 to this report .

4.1.5  The report addresses compliance with specific development plan policies. The planning 

balance section of the report sets out an assessment of whether, overall, there is compliance 

with the development plan. 

# 4.2 Main planning considerations 

4.2.1  The main planning issues raised by the application that the Committee must consider are: 

• Principle of land use 

• Design 

• Sustainable design and construction 

• Amenity impact 

• Transport 

# 4.2.2 Principle of land use 

Presumption in favour of sustainable development 

4.2.2.1  The NPPF sets the presumption in favour of sustainable development, and this is reflected in 

LLP Policy D2 and the other policies in the plan. LLP Policy D2 states that the Council will 

always work proactively with applicants jointly to find solutions which mean that proposals can 

be approved wherever possible and to secure development that improves the economic, 

social and environmental conditions in Lambeth. 

Safeguarded waste site 

4.2.2.2  The wider Thornton Park site includes an area (1,100 sqm) that is safeguarded for waste use 

by the LLP . This designation reflects that historically there was a small waste facility for 

clinical /hygiene waste located on the wider Thornton Park site .

4.2.2.3  LP Policy SI9 safeguards waste sites based on their waste processing capacity which is the 

maximum throughput achieved over the last five years. The policy says the loss of an existing 

waste site can only be supported where appropriate compensatory capacity is made within 

London that must be at or above the same level of the waste hierarchy and at least meet, and 

should exceed, the maximum achievable throughput of th e site proposed to be lost. ↑ To contents 

4.2.2.4  LLP Policy EN7 has a similar approach , with the loss of a safeguarded waste site only being 

acceptable where appropriate compensatory waste capacity is identified and secured, 

however the policy says this should be within the borough, to ensure no net loss of Lambeth’s 

waste management capacity. 

4.2.2.5  The former waste use that operated on the wider site prior to redevelopment ceased 

operating in 2016 when an Environment Agency licen ce was surrendered . The maximum 

throughput of the waste use was 1,181 tonnes during 2015 and this is the stated throughput 

capacity for the site in the Lambeth Waste Evidence Base (2020). 

Compensatory waste capacity 

4.2.2.6  When the scheme for the wider Thornton Park development was consented in 2018 , the 

development addressed the waste site safeguarding policy by includ ing a space within the 

basement of Block E – F to be used as a WTU . This WTU had an area of 1,164 sqm and was 

considered an appropriate reprovision of the existing waste capacity. The consented WTU 

was considered potentially suitable for healthcare (hazardous) waste, processing electrical 

equipment, and undertaking furniture dismantling and refurbishment . However , an end user of 

the WTU was never identified, and relevant license s from the Environment Agency would 

have been required meaning the type of waste use had not been finalised .

4.2.2.7  Since the granting of planning permission for the wider Thornton Park development in 2018, 

an operator for the consented WTU has not been found, and therefore the applicant has 

instead sought to provide compensatory waste capacity elsewhere (with the basement WTU 

to be used as gym as proposed in this planning application). 

4.2.2.8  The applicant has attempted to secure an occupant for the WTU and has submitted evidence 

of marketing from 2018 to 2022 which showed very little interest in the premises . Feedback 

from prospective occupiers raises c oncerns about the layout of the space which is within the 

basement and accessed only via a ramp, inadequate ceiling height and ventilation , and lack 

of access for large lorries. The Site access is also shared with residential use. 

4.2.2.9  In respect of LP Policy S I9, the previous operator of the waste use at the Site, Cannon 

Hygiene, moved their operations to two new waste facilities in Merton and Barking (in 2015 

and 2016 respectively ) which have a combined capacity greater than the Clapham site . This 

has provided additional waste capacity for London and the GLA has concluded that adequate 

capacity has been secured to justify the loss of th e safeguarded waste site, meeting LP Policy 

SI9. 

4.2.2.10  In respect of LLP Policy EN7 which requires “… appropriate compensatory capacity …” 

elsewhere within Lambeth (as opposed to elsewhere in London ) where loss of waste capacity 

is proposed , the applicant has identified an alternative waste site at Belinda Road 

(Loughborough Junction ) operated by Powerday. Evidence of a n agreement between the 

applicant and Powerday for a transfer of 1,181 tonnes of waste capacity has been submitted. 

The Belinda Road site has a license for an annual permitted throughput of 75,000 tonnes, 

with a maximum throughput over the last five years o f 47,869 tonnes during 2019 (pre -covid) .

This demonstrates there is at least 27,131 tonnes of spare permitted capacity which will be 

able to accommodate the transfer of 1,181 tonnes from the existing safeguarded waste site in 

Clapham. The site has a permit which allows the operator to receive and treat waste from 

household, commercial and industrial sources, as well as from construction and demolition 

sit es. ↑ To contents 

4.2.2.11  Although the waste capacity identified at the Powerday site may not constitute true 

additionality (as it theoretically exists) , given that the original waste operator has relocated to 

new alternative sites in London with a greater capacity (meeting LP Policy S I9) , noting the 

Clapham site has remained vacant since 201 6 following extensive unsuccessful marketing, 

and suitable unused waste capacity has been secured within Lambeth by agreement, the 

proposal is considered to satisfy LLP Policy EN 7 as the compens atory capacity is appropriate 

in the particular circumstances . Intensification of waste sites is also encouraged by LP Policy 

SI8. 

4.2.2.12  A section 106 planning obligation is recommended to secure details to show how the site 

at Belinda Road (or alternative site) is capable of processing the same level in the waste 

hierarchy with an additional annual throughput 1,181 tonnes per annum before the gym use 

would be able to be first occupied. Subject to the recommend obligation, the loss of the 

safeguarded waste site is acceptable. 

Proposed gym use 

4.2.2.13  The proposed gym (Use Class E(d)) is a ‘ main town centre’ use . Under National policy 

(NPPF Section 7), LP Policy SD7 and LLP Policy ED7, a gym proposed outside a designated 

town centre must pass the sequential test, demonstrating that there are no suitable, available 

and viable sites within the centre or edge -of -centr e locations that could reasonably 

accommodate the use, applying an appropriate degree of flexibility. The aim of these policies 

is to direct development to designated centres first to protect t heir vitality and viability and 

encourage more sustainable travel. 

4.2.2.14  A sequential test was submitted by the applicant as the Site is considered edge -of -centre, 

requiring a sequential test for the proposed gym use; no impact assessment is required due 

to its size (the NPPF threshold for an impact assessment is 2,500 sqm – whilst the proposed 

gym is 1, 341 sqm ). The search area is appropriately limited to the Clapham High Street 

District Centre as the gym is likely to serve a fairly localised catchment. F lexibility in unit size 

has been reasonably applied . The test has demonstr ated that there are no sequentially 

preferable sites (including larger premises) available . Therefore, the sequential test is passed ,

satisfying LP Policy SD7 and LLP Policy ED7 .

Compatibility with the wider development 

4.2.2.15  In respect of the wider Thornton Park development, t he proposal integrates with the 

approved design by modifying only part of the basement and a small area of the ground floor ,

without materially affecting essential infrastructure or the approved layout, and it would not 

hinder the delivery of the remainder of the consented scheme . Provision of the gym to the 

front of Block E – F, including a ground floor lobby, would provide a level of activity but this is 

appropriately located at the front of the Site. A non -material amendment (19/00406/NMC )

consented changes to the wider scheme including to t he residential element to the eastern 

end of Block E – F, permitting a space to the ground floor for a residents’ only gym (for the 

Build to Rent housing), however this is an ancillary use that only serves part of the 

development and is not open to the public, and it would not be affected by the current 

proposal. 

Conclusion 

4.2.2.16  The proposal is acceptable in principle, as appropriate compensatory waste capacity will 

be secured within Lambeth whilst capacity was also increased elsewhere in London , the 

sequential test for the proposed gym use has been satisfied, and the scheme integrates with 

the consented Thornton Park development without prejudicing its delivery. A five year ↑ To contents 

consent has been requested by the applicant as implementation under the s106 deed will be 

restricted until compensatory capacity has been secured or satisfactorily evidenced . Officers 

consider that this is reasonable in the circumstances. Amenity and other impacts from the 

proposed gym use are discussed below. 

# 4.2.3 Design 

4.2.3.1  The current proposal only involves changes to the basement level that will not be visible 

outside of the basement , and very minor changes the design of entrance doors, supporting 

columns and materials to part of the ground floor elevations of Block E – F. The proposed 

changes will not materially impact the design of the consented scheme and are acceptable .

# 4.2.4 Sustainable design and construction 

4.2.4.1  Strategic and local policies require development to demonstrate how it would minimise its 

impact on the environment , including through its construction and end -use. 

Energy strategy 

4.2.4.2  LP Policy SI 2 states that major developments should be net -zero carbon. This means 

reducing greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the following energy hierarchy: 

• Be Lean: use less energy and manage demand during operation 

• Be Clean: exploit local energy resources (such as secondary heat) and supply energy 

efficiently and cleanly .

• Be Green: maximise opportunities for renewable energy by producing, storing and using 

renewable energy on -site .

• Be Seen: monitor, verify and report on energy performance .

4.2.4.3  The proposal relates to part of the consented Thornton Park scheme, which has an agreed 

energy strategy that includes a site wide communal energy system. The consented scheme 

was subject to assessment of its sustainability . The proposed gym would occupy part of the 

existing basement and ground floor of Block E – F, which has been built to shell and core 

stage, and as such the development is a major refurbishment for assessment purposes. The 

GLA’s Energy Assessment Guidance (2022) advises that such applicati ons should include an 

energy assessment demonstrating how the individual elements of the energy hierarchy have 

been implemented and how reductions in regulated CO 2 emissions have been achieved. 

4.2.4.4  Given the nature of the application, which relates to a new use to the largely completed 

premises, assessment of the sustainability performance has considered the comparison 

between the proposal against a notional gym built to 2021 Building Regulations as 

recommended by the GLA guidance .

4.2.4.5  An updated Energy Assessment confirms that the proposed development achieves a 49% 

reduction in regulated CO ₂ emissions compared to a Part L 2021 -compliant building, with this 

exceeding the minimum 35% reduction from LP Policy SI2 . The design follows best -practice 

energy and cooling, reusing waste heat, and incorporating renewable energy sources (ground 

source heat pumps ).

4.2.4.6  In respect of Be Lean, a 6% emissions reduction is achieved from energy efficiency 

measures, which is below the target of 15% , however it is noted the building shell and core is 

already constructed which limits opportunities for carbon emission savings .↑ To contents 

4.2.4.7  In respect of Be Clean, the development will connect to the site -wide energy centre serving 

heating and cooling network s as with the consented scheme. 

4.2.4.8  In respect of Be Green, the proposal will be connected to the wider site’s energy network 

which utilises ground source heat pumps and solar PV panels. 

4.2.4.9  LLP Policy EN4 requires all major non -residential refurbishment of existing buildings and 

conversions over 500 sqm to meet at least BREEAM Non -Domestic Refurbishment 

‘Excellent’. A BREEAM pre -assessment has been completed with this targeting an Excellent 

rating as required by LLP Policy EN4. Condition 10 has been recommended to secure 

BREEAM compliance. 

4.2.4.10  The Be Seen Stage requires the development to monitor and report to the GLA on the 

energy performance of the development as -built and in the in -use phase for every year 

following occupation of the development for at least the first five years. This is secured by a

condition 11 .

4.2.4.11  Although the building has only been completed to shell and core stage and has not 

previously been occupied, it constitutes an existing structure for the purposes of LP Policy 

SI2 , and as noted, it has been assessed as a major refurbishment. While the scheme 

achieves significant carbon reductions within the constraints of the existing building fabric, 

these constraints limit the ability to achieve net -zero carbon on site. In accordance with LP 

Policy SI2, it is recommended the remaining regulated carbon emis sions should be 

addressed through a carbon offset contribution secured via a section 106 obligation to 

achieve ‘zero carbon’ (present estimate is £220,223) .

4.2.4.12  In respect of unregulated emissions, these would be minimised through energy efficiency 

measures, with guidance and metering for operation of heating and hot water systems to be 

provided .

Overheating mitigation 

4.2.4.13  LP Policy SI 4 states that major development proposals should demonstrate how they will 

reduce the potential for internal overheating and reliance on air conditioning systems in 

accordance with a hierarchy that prioritises passive measures over active measures. LLP 

Policy EN4 requires development to be resilient to climate change by including appropriate 

climate change adaptation measures. 

4.2.4.14  The basement arrangement eliminates solar gain and inherently reduces overheating risk, 

irrespective of layout. In addition, the plant space is located near the showers to reduce pipe 

runs and internal gain from pipework. 

Waste and the circular economy 

4.2.4.15  LP Policies SI 7 and D3 require development proposals to integrate circular economy 

principles, with LLP Policy EN7 supporting waste management up the waste hierarchy 

through the efficient use and reuse of resources. LP Policy SI 7 and LLP Policy EN7 require 

at least 95% of construction, demolition and excavation waste t o be reused, recycled or put to 

beneficial use, with disposal to landfill only where more sustainable alternatives are not 

feasibl e and during operation recycling is to be maximised. This is to be secured through an 

operational waste management plan (condition 9).↑ To contents 

Conclusion 

4.2.4.16  The proposal demonstrates compliance with strategic and local sustainability policies by 

following the LP energy hierarchy, achieving carbon reductions in excess of the minimum 

requirements of LP Policy SI2 and improving performance compared to the consented 

scheme , and appropriately addressing remaining emissions through offsetting secured by a

section 106 planning obligation . It incorporates climate -resilient design measures in 

accordance with LP Policy SI4 and LLP Policy EN4, integrates circular economy principles, 

and meets construction and operational waste requirements under LP Policies SI7 and D3 

and LLP Policy EN7, subject to the recommended conditions .

# 4.2.5 Amenity impact 

4.2.5.1  LLP Policy Q2 requires development to protect the amenity of existing/future occupants, 

neighbours and the visual amenity of the community of a whole. 

4.2.5.2  The proposed gym is suitably located at the front of the wider Thornton Park site and 

occupies space that was designated for a commercial use (waste transfer) within the mixed -

use development .

4.2.5.3  Being predominantly located within the basement and being contained within the existing 

building footprint and envelop e of Block E – F, impacts on the living conditions of neighbours 

and residents within the Thornton Park development would not be significantly different to the 

consent ed scheme. The uses above and adjacent to the proposed gym within Block E – F are 

non -residential, and the construction of the building and the separation from the upper 

residential floors would mitigate any internal noise tran smission from the gymnasium use .

4.2.5.4  A condition (3) has been recommended to secure an Operational Management Plan to agree 

details of management responsibilities and noise mitigation and control, including from 

amplified music. As the proposed car parking is very limited and the gym entrance is located 

at the front of the Site and below commercial office space, undue disturbance to neighbours 

is not expected and no controls for hours of opening are considered necessary .

# 4.2.6 Transport 

4.2.6.1  Development plan policies seek to ensure that the impacts of development on the transport 

network are fully assessed and promote sustainable modes of travel. Paragraph 11 6 of the 

NPPF states that “development should only be prevented or refused on highways grounds if 

there would be an unacceptable impact on highway safety, or the residual cumulative impacts 

on the road network would be severe , taking into account all reasonable future scenarios .” 

Site context 

4.2.6.2  The Site is located to the south of Clapham High Street but has a good Public Transport 

Accessibility Level of 4 to 5. Pedestrian , cycle and vehicle access is provided to the Site from 

Cleevedale Place, off Clapham Common Southside. Cla pham Common underground station 

is approximately 500m to the north and there are bus services nearby on Clapham Common 

Southside , with this road also forming part of Cycle Superhighway 7. 

Access and trip generation 

4.2.6.3  It is anticipated that most visitors to the gym would arrive and depart using public transport, 

walking or cycling as gyms primarily serve people living or working locally. The Thornton Park 

development includes a dedicated footpath along Cleevedale Place to the Site. Residents of 

the consented Thornton Park development would also be expected to use the gym given its ↑ To contents 

proximity. The Transport Assessment shows the existing transport network can accommodate 

movements using various modes of travel associated with the gym. 

4.2.6.4  The proposed gym will result in significantly fewer vehicle movements per day compared to 

the consented WTU use. Vehicle movements to the gym associated with servicing are 

forecast to be 2 per day whilst there were 104 vehicle movements per day for the WTU. 

Given that the proposed development would be car -free, and due to the nature of the 

proposed use catering to a local resident and employment population, it is accepted that 

vehicle trips would be greatly reduced, particularly the number of HGV and LGV 

mo vements. This is regarded as a significant betterment over the consented scheme. 

Parking 

4.2.6.5  The basement level to Block E – F of the consented scheme includes car parking for 

residential and commercial uses, with this accessed via a ramp from Cleevedale Place. The 

consented scheme had 5 car parking spaces, inclusive of 1 disabled parking bay , for the 

commercial use s on the site . The basement also included parking/ loading bays for 3 HGVs 

and 5 large vans to service the WTU .

4.2.6.6  The current proposal also has 5 car parking spaces, but 1 of the general spaces has been 

amended to be a disabled space, meaning there are now 2 disabled parking bays. The gym is 

to be car free, though it is recommended that the disabled bays be made available to gym 

users. The HGV and large van spaces are no longer proposed. 

4.2.6.7  A Car Parking Management Plan that is compatible with the wider consented scheme is 

necessary , with this to be secured by condition , to set out how parking spaces will be 

managed so that it is confined to the marked bays only, how misuse of the accessible bays 

and parking outside of designated bays will be prevented. 

Cycle parking 

4.2.6.8  The Transport Statement states that there would be 15 FTE members of staf f, with this 

requiring 2 long -stay cycle spaces and 15 short -stay cycle spaces to comply with the LP 

standards for gym use. The proposal shows that the long -stay provision would be internal to 

the gym, while the short -stay spaces would be located within the public realm opposite to the 

gym lobby . The long -stay spaces are shown in a secure enclosure within the basement 

(access is via the ramp or lift). 

4.2.6.9  Initially the application proposed to provide additional short stay cycle parking above that 

provided by the consented scheme . However, the proposed short -stay cycle parking opposite 

the gym entrance was revised after it was identified that the original layout would result in 

cycles overhanging the carriageway and failing to meet minimum spacing standards, giving 

rise to highway safety concerns. The u pdated scheme provides 5 short -stay spaces in a safer 

arrangement at this location, together with two furthe r Sheffield stands (4 short -stay spaces) 

near the car park ramp, both benefiting from good accessibility and natural surveillance giving 

a total of 9 short -stay space s. Although this reduces the number of short -stay spaces 

immediately adjacent to the entrance and the provision proposed is lower than the 

recommended standard , the revised provision is safer, more usable and, on balance, 

represents an improvement on the previously approved scheme. 

4.2.6.10  Additionally, there are a further 32 short -stay spaces in the wider site, that could be used 

by visitors to the gym. Therefore, there would be 41 short -stay spaces provided within the 

wider site in total, whereas the minimum policy requirement for all the proposed and a pproved 

uses in the wider site is 35 spaces , though not all the overprovision would be convenient for ↑ To contents 

the gym use. Condition 4 is recommended to secure satisfactory details of the proposed cycle 

parking prior to first use of the gym .

Travel plan 

4.2.6.11  The application was supported by a Travel Plan setting out measures to encourage 

sustainable transport travel for the gym (this will be secured by condition 12) . This plan will 

includ e monitoring and funding for the monitoring is recommended to be secured by a section 

106 planning obligation. 

Deliveries and servicing 

4.2.6.12  Servicing of the gym would take place from within the basement as was the case for the 

consented WTU . A single loading space is now proposed. The Transport Statement expects 

that the proposed servicing requirements of the gym use would result in one -two vehicles per 

day, including refuse collection, and this relatively low requirement is accepted by officers. A

condition is recommended requiring that that t he approved Delivery and Servicing Plan for the 

consented scheme for the wider site be amended to ref lect the current proposal and it to be 

applied to this proposal. The layout changes would not affect the ability of other large refuse 

collection vehicles to access the basement to service other uses in the wider development. 

Summary 

4.2.6.13  The proposal is acceptable as it would generate fewer vehicle movements than the 

consented use and is expected to be predominantly accessed by walking, cycling and public 

transport. Car and cycle parking arrangements are acceptable and safely accommodated, 

with updated management, travel planning and servicing arrangements secured by condition 

and section 106 obligations. 

# 4.3 Other planning considerations 

4.3.1  Other planning issues that are relevant to this scheme are: 

• Urban Greening and Biodiversity 

• Employment and training 

• Designing out crime 

• Flood risk and drainage 

• Air quality 

• Fire safety 

# 4.3.2 Urban greening and biodiversity 

4.3.2.1  LP Policy G5 sets Urban Greening Factor ( “UGF ”) targets of 0.4 for residential and 0.3 for 

commercial development . LP Policy G6D and the Environment Act 2021 mandate 10% 

Biodiversity Net Gain ( “BNG ”) for most developments .

4.3.2.2  In terms of the UGF, the consented scheme for the wider site pre -dates the LP target 

requirements . Whilst the proposed design amendments do not affect the agreed landscaping 

as there are no footprint changes . Previously agree d ecological mitigation measures remain 

valid. The proposal is exempt from mandatory BNG requirements as it do es not affect any 

habitat. 

# 4.3.3 Employment and training 

4.3.3.1  LLP Policy ED15 states that planning obligations should be used to secure employment 

opportunities and apprenticeships arising from major developments, so that local residents ↑ To contents 

are given access to the right skills training so that they can take advantage of opportunities 

created by new development. 

4.3.3.2  The proposed gym use would employ 15 FTE (staff). It is recommended that the use be 

included within the existing site -wide Employment and Skills Plan (“ESP”) and a section 106 

planning obligation is recommended in this regard, which will apply commitments and funding 

from the agreed ESP towards providing employment and training opportunities for Lambeth 

residents . The agreed ESP also secured a contribution of £106,757 .35 for this purpose . Given 

construction work is largely completed, this ESP requirements i n respect of the Site would be 

focussed on the end user phase. 

# 4.3.4 Designing out crime 

4.3.4.1  LP Policy D11 states that development should include measures to design out crime that (in 

proportion to the risk) deter terrorism, assist in the detection of terrorist activity and help 

mitigate its effects. Similarly, LLP Policy Q3 expects development to design out opportunistic 

crime, antisocial behaviour and fear of crime in a site -specific manner as well as address 

resilience to terrorism. 

4.3.4.2  The proposed gym is located within the basement and ground floor of an existing building and 

shares access with the remainder of the development on the Site. The gym is at the front of 

the Site and can be independently accessed . Access will be controlled via PIN entry and 

secure entrances , supported by 24/7 CCTV monitoring. A draft Visitor Management Plan has 

been provided, and a condition to secure a n Operational Management Plan to manage 

operations of the gym is recommended (condition 3) .

# 4.3.5 Flood risk and drainage 

4.3.5.1  In accordance with LP Policy SI12 and LLP Policy EN5, the proposal minimises flood risk and 

addresses residual risk. There is no change to the building footprint or excavation, and the 

site remains in Flood Zone 1 with no change to fluvial, tidal or surfac e water risk. 

4.3.5.2  The proposal also complies with LLP Policy EN6 and LP Policy SI13, which require the use of 

SuDS, achievement of greenfield run -off rates, and application of the drainage hierarchy. 

Existing mitigation measures remain in place, groundwater risk remains med ium, and climate 

change allowances of 35% (1:30 -year) and 40% (1:100 -year) events are already 

incorporated. 

# 4.3.6 Air quality 

4.3.6.1  There is a Lambeth wide Air Quality Management Area and Lambeth is also covered by the 

Non -Road Mobile Machinery Low Emission Zone. 

4.3.6.2  LP Policy SI 1 recognises the need to tackle poor air quality, protect health and meet legal 

obligations. Development proposals should not lead to further deterioration of existing poor air 

quality, create any new areas that exceed air quality limits, or delay the date at which 

compliance will be achieved in areas that are currently in exceedance of legal limit s, or create 

unacceptable risk of high levels of exposure to poor air quality. To meet these requirements, 

this policy requires proposals to be at le ast ‘Air Quality Neutral’. Guidance on this is provided 

by the GLA in their Air Quality Neutral London Plan Guidance .

4.3.6.3  The proposed air quality impacts associated with the proposal and its effect on the impact of 

the wider consented scheme have been considered. It is noted that the gym would be car free 

(subject to access to disabled parking) and the number of spaces within the basement is ↑ To contents 

unchanged from the consented scheme . The removal of the HGV and reduction 

in LGV movements from the development results in a significant reduction in air quality 

impacts from vehicles . The proposed gym use would not change the Air Quality Neutral 

status of the wider consented scheme and the proposal will be Air Quality Neutral .

# 4.3.7 Groundwater and land contamination 

4.3.7.1  LLP Policy EN4 requires proposals to assess ground conditions and, where contamination 

exists, to identify and implement appropriate remediation prior to development commencing, 

secured through an approved remediation strategy where necessary. 

4.3.7.2  The proposed development does not involve any further excavation or intrusive ground works 

and would utilise the existing building where land has already been remediated as part of the 

wider consented scheme. The change of use would not introduce any new or additional 

contamination risks and no further remediation is required. 

# 4.3.8 Fire safety 

4.3.8.1  As required by LP Policy D12, a Fire Statement which is produced by an independent and 

accredited specialist has been submitted. 

4.3.8.2  The submitted Fire Safety Statement confirms compliance with LP Policy D12, it includes 

120 -minute compartmentation, fire doors, sprinklers, emergency lighting, and a fire alarm 

system. Means of escape and inclusive design (evacuation lift) are addressed, with a 

management plan for ongoing compliance. 

4.3.8.3  Officers are satisfied that the submitted Fire Statement provides sufficient information for 

planning stage and recommend Condition 8 is imposed on the planning permission to ensure 

that the strategy is implemented, and the development is carried out in accordance with this 

document. 

# 4.4 Planning obligations and CIL 

# 4.4.1 Planning obligations 

4.4.1.1  LLP Policy D4 and Annex 9 set out the Council’s policy in relation to seeking planning 

obligations and the charging approaches for various types of obligation. For contributions that 

are not covered by Annex 9, the Council’s approach to calculating contributions is guided by 

the Affordable Workspace SPD ( adopted 2022) .

4.4.1.2  The planning obligations that are proposed are considered necessary to make the 

development acceptable in planning terms, are directly related to the development and are 

fairly and reasonably related in kind and in scale to the development. They are theref ore 

compliant with the requirements of Regulation 122 of the Community Infrastructure Levy 

Regulations 2010. 

4.4.1.3  The proposed obligations to be secured through the S106 deed are as follows: 

Item  Details 

Energy and sustainability  Carbon Offset contribution £220,223 

Transport  Travel Plan monitoring fee ↑ To contents 

Car free development meaning there shall be n o business 

parking permit s

Employment and skills 

Link to w ider site Employment & Skills Plan to apply 

agreed commitments to the proposal 

Waste capacity 

Details of arrangements for appropriate compensatory 

waste capacity to be confirm ed / s ecured prior to 

occupation of gym 

Monitoring fee  £TBC (max. 5% of contributions) 

4.4.1.4  All contribution referenced above shall be index linked. 

# 4.4.2 CIL 

4.4.2.1  If the application is approved and the development is implemented, a liability to pay the 

Lambeth Community Infrastructure Levy (CIL) will arise. 

4.4.2.2  Expenditure of the majority of a future CIL receipt will be applied towards Borough 

infrastructure needs in accordance with the applicable policies and procedures relating to 

expenditure decisions. 

4.4.2.3  Allocation of CIL monies to particular infrastructure projects is not a matter for consideration 

in the determination of planning applications. 

4.4.2.4  The estimated Lambeth CIL for this development is nil as the basement space overall is not 

larger than the wider consented scheme . The estimated Mayoral CIL for this development is 

nil . Please note that these CIL figures are indicative and will be confirmed if permission is 

granted. 

# 4.5 Equality duty and human rights 

4.5.1.1  The beginning of the Agenda Pack sets out the legislative background to equalities and 

human rights considerations and the approach that the decision -maker needs to take .

Reference should be made to those materials. 

4.5.1.2  Officers do not consider that the proposal would have any adverse impact on people with 

protected characteristics or that the rights of individuals under the European Convention on 

Human Rights would be infringed by the proposed developmen t.

4.5.1.3  If Members disagree with officers’ assessment and consider that there would be an impact 

not identified by officers, or that the impact identified would be greater than as set out by 

officers, they should consider whether the weight to be given to that imp act when considering 

the planning balance is such as to mean that planning permission should be refused. 

# 4.6 Planning balance and conclusion 

# 4.6.1 Compliance with the development plan 

4.6.1.1  Section 70(2) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 states that in dealing with an 

application for planning permission the local planning authority shall have regard to the 

provisions of the development plan, so far as material to the application , a post -examination 

draft neighbourhood development plan, any local finance considerations (as defined in 

section 70(4), to include CIL receipts) and to any other material considerations . Section 38(6) ↑ To contents 

of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 requires planning decisions to be made 

in accordance with the development plan unless material considerations indicate otherwise. 

4.6.1.2  When assessing whether an application complies with the development plan, it is necessary 

to look at the development plan as a whole. There may be policies that pull in different 

directions. It is necessary to reach a judgement about whether, when looked at overall, the 

application amounts to a departure from the development plan . Factors relevant to this 

judgement can include the number of policies not complied with, the extent of any non -

compliance , how up to date various policies are , and whether a polic y relates to the principle 

of development or a more minor aspect .

4.6.1.3  The proposal would bring vacant floorspace within the Thornton Park development into active 

use as a public gym, with no changes to the building’s scale or footprint. The loss of the 

consented waste transfer unit is acceptable in this case as appropriate c ompensatory waste 

capacity within the borough will be secured through a section 106 deed , and the sequential 

test for the proposed use has been passed. The development would generate significantly 

fewer vehicle movements than the consented use and would no t result in unacceptable 

impacts on amenity, design, transport or sustainability. 

4.6.1.4  When the development plan is looked at as a whole, in officers’ assessment the proposal 

accords with it. The development plan policies identified as relevant to the assessment of the 

application are all complied with. 

# 4.6.2 Other material considerations 

Equalities and human rights 

4.6.2.1  The position as regards equalities and /or human rights impacts is addressed in section 4.5 of 

the report .

# 4.6.3 Conclusion 

4.6.3.1  Overall, the proposal is considered to comply with the development plan when taken as a 

whole, and no material considerations have been identified that indicate planning permission 

should be refused. Planning permission is therefore recommended to be grant ed subject to 

conditions and completion of a section 106 agreement. 

# 4.7 Recommendations 

1.  Resolve to grant conditional planning permission subject to the completion of a deed under 

Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 containing the planning obligations as 

set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes. 

2.  Agree to delegate authority to the Director of Climate, Planning and Transport to: (a). Finalise 

the recommended conditions as set out in this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes; and (b).

Negotiate, agree and finalise the planning obligations as set out in this report, addend a and/or 

PAC minutes pursuant to Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 .

3.  In the event that the Committee resolves to refuse planning permission and there is a 

subsequent appeal, delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport , having regard to this report, addend a and/or PAC minutes, to propose planning 

conditions and to negotiate and complete a deed containing obligations pursuant to Section 

106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 in order to meet the requirement s of the 

Planning Inspector. ↑ To contents 

4.  In the event that the Section 106 deed is not completed within six months of the date of the 

Committee meeting , delegated authority is given to the Director of Climate, Planning and 

Transport to refuse planning permission for failure to enter into a Section 106 deed providing 

for the obligations considered necessary to make the development acceptable in planning 

terms as identified in this report, addend a and/or the PAC minutes. ↑ To contents 

# 5. Appendices 

# 5.1 Appendix 1 – Draft Decision Notice 

# DRAFT DECISION NOTICE 

Dear Thornton Park London Ltd 

# TOWN AND COUNTRY PLANNING ACT 1990 .

# PERMISSION FOR DEVELOPMENT 

The London Borough of Lambeth hereby permits under the above mentioned Acts and associated orders the 

development referred to in the schedule set out below subject to any conditions imposed therein and in 

accordance with the plans submitted, save in so far as may otherwise be required by the said conditions. 

In accordance with the statutory provisions your attention is drawn to the statement of Applicant’s Rights and 

General Information attached. 

Application Number: 24/02311/FUL Date of Application: 24.07.2024 

Proposed Development At : 1 Cleevedale Place London SW4 9FA 

For: Alterations within existing basement (Level -1) including amended parking and cycle storage layout for use of 

part of groundfloor and basement (Level -1) within Building E -F as gymnasium Class E(d). 

1 The development to which this permission relates must be begun no later than five years from the date of 

this decision notice. 

Reason: To comply with the provision of Section 91 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990. 

2 The development hereby permitted shall be carried out in complete accordance with the approved plans 

and drawings listed in this decision notice, other than where those details are altered pursuant to conditions of this 

planning permission. 

Proposed Site Plan Basement Level - RG2251 -FCH -ZZ -GF -DR -A-91211 P01 

Proposed Site Plan Ground Floor - RG2251 -FCH -SI -GF -DR -A-91200 P03 

Your Ref: 

Our Ref: 24/02311/FUL 

Thornton Park London Ltd 

c/o Arjun Lal 

Fitzroy Place 

6 Mortimer Street 

London W1T 3JJ ↑ To contents 

Proposed Basement Floor Plan – RG2251 -FCH -EF -B1 -DR -A-01211 P02 

Proposed Ground Floor Plan - RG2251 -FCH -EF -GF -DR -A-01200 P05 

Proposed Site Location Plan Basement Level - RG2251 -FCH -EF -B1 -91201 P01 

Proposed Site Location Plan Ground Floor Level - RG2251 -FCH -ZZ -XX -DR -A-90002 P01 

Proposed Ground and First Floor Elevations - RG2251 -FCH -EF -XX -DR -A-02040 P04 

Design and Access Statement - P19105 -FCH -XX -XX -RG -A-0011 Rev P01 

Reason: For the avoidance of doubt and in the interests of proper planning. 

3 The use hereby permitted shall not commence until an Operational Management Plan has been submitted 

and approved in writing by the local planning authority. This should include but not be limited to, hours of operation, 

management responsibilities during all operating hours, measures to mitigate use of free weights, measures to 

control noise from amplified music and measures for preventing patrons arriving and departing the facility from 

causing nuisance for people in the area. The plan must also include details of the person or role responsible for 

recording and rectifying any significant issues as they are reported and how those details will be publicised and 

made available to the public. All complaints shall be logged and recorded in a suitable manner, along with any 

corrective action carried out to address the matters raised. The use hereby permitted shall thereafter be operated in 

accordance with the approved details and the record of complaints shall be produced on any reasonable request of 

a suitabl y authorised officer of the Council. 

Reason: To protect the amenities of adjoining occupiers and the surrounding area (policy Q2 of the London 

Borough of Lambeth Local Plan (2021)). 

4 Notwithstanding the details on the drawings and documents hereby approved, prior to the occupation of the 

development hereby approved, details of the provision of cycle parking shall be submitted to and approved in 

writing by the Local Planning Authority. The details shall include: 

a) Provision of 2 Long Stay cycle parking spaces and 9 Short Stay cycle parking spaces. 

b) Design and location of cycle parking stores, including specification of cycle stands; 

c) Evidence that cycle parking stores meet the design standards set out in Chapter 8 of the London Cycle Design 

Standards (LCDS). 

The cycle parking shall thereafter be implemented in full in accordance with the approved details before the use 

hereby permitted commences and shall thereafter be retained solely for its designated use. 

Reason: To ensure adequate cycle parking is available on site and to promote sustainable modes of transport and 

to ensure a high -quality standard of development (LP Policy T5 and LLP Policies T1, T3, Q2, Q5, Q7, Q8, Q13, 

Q22 and Q23). 

5 Prior to the occupation of the development hereby approved, a Parking Design and Management Plan for 

the development shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority. The plan shall 

include full details of the access arrangeme nts into the basement; including details of visibility splays and access 

control associated with the proposed ramp; enforcement; operational management of Electric Vehicle Charging 

Points (EVCPs) (including location); and disabled parking bays including the ability for blue badge holders o use at 

least 1 disabled parking bay. Thereafter, the approved parking management plan shall be implemented and 

operated for the duration of the permitted use. 

Reason: To prevent the parking areas becoming obstructed, to maximise use of the parking bays and to ensure 

that pedestrian and vehicular safety is not prejudiced (LP Policies T6 and T6.1 and LLP Policies T1 and T6). 

6 Prior the occupation of the use hereby permitted, a Servicing and Delivery Management Plan shall be 

submitted to and approved in writing by the Local Planning Authority. The use hereby permitted shall thereafter be 

operated in accordance with the approved details. The submitted details must be compatible with the other 

servicing requirements for the development served by the same vehicular access as the site and shall include the 

following: 

a) frequency of deliveries to the site; 

b) frequency of other servicing vehicles such as refuse collections; 

c) dimensions of delivery and servicing vehicles; 

d) proposed loading and delivery locations; and 

e) a strategy to manage vehicles servicing the site. ↑ To contents 

Reason: To protect the amenities of adjoining occupiers and the surrounding area and to limit the effects of the 

increase in travel movements (LLP Policies T7 and Q2). 

7 Notwithstanding the provisions of the Town and Country Planning (General Permitted Development) 

(England) Order 2015 (or any order revoking and re -enacting that Order with or without modification), the Use 

Class E(d) space shall be used for purposes that fall within Use Class E(d) of the Town and Country (Use Classes) 

Order 1987 (or any provision equivalent to those Classes in any statutory instrument revoking and reenacting that 

Order with or without modification) and shall not be used for any other pur pose. 

Reason: To enable appropriate consideration of other uses noting the particular characteristics of the premises. 

8 The development shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the approved Fire Statement 

and Safety Strategy by Orsa (dated 26 June 2022) unless otherwise approved in writing by the Local Planning 

Authority. 

Reason: To ensure that the development considers fire safety measures at an early stage (LP Policy D12). 

9 Prior to the occupation or use of any part of the development hereby approved, a Waste and Recycling 

Management Plan, providing details of waste and recycling storage for the development shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by the Local Planning A uthority. The details of waste and recycling facilities shall set out: - The 

storage and disposal arrangements for covered, secured and signposted refuse and recycling, including waste 

associated with proposed public realm areas; - The hours of proposed wa ste collection; - Detailed drawings and 

supporting information for the management and collection of waste and recycling; - Arrangements for cleaning and 

maintenance of bin store areas; - Swept paths for refuse vehicles, dimensions of door widths, wash down and 

drainage facilities; - Evidence that the waste and recycling storage areas/facilities comply with the Lambeth's 

Refuse & Recycling Storage Design Guide (2022). Prior to occupation of the development the approved refuse and 

recycling facilities shall b e completed in accordance with the approved details and thereafter be maintained for the 

life of the development. 

Reason: To ensure suitable provision for the occupiers of the development, to encourage the sustainable 

management of waste and to safeguard the visual amenities of the area (Policies Q2 and Q12 of the LLP). 

10 Within six months of occupation of the use hereby permitted, a BREEAM New Construction RFO 2014 ,

Shell Only, Post Construction Review (Final), certificate and summary score sheet shall be submitted to and 

approved in writing by the local planning authority to show that an Excellent rating (minimum score 70%) has been 

achieved for the development non -residential areas. Where it can be robustly demonstrated, through evidence 

submitted with the Post Construction Review, that achieving ‘Excellent’ is not tec hnically feasible due to constraints 

of the existing building fabric or site -specific circumstances, a minimum rating of ‘Very Good’ (score ≥55%) will be 

accepted. The certificate shall be produced by an independent licensed assessor and shall confirm comp liance with 

the approved BREEAM methodology .

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability (LLP Policy EN4). 

11 Prior to occupation of the development hereby permitted, updated accurate and verified 'as -built' design 

estimates of the 'Be Seen' energy performance indicators for the development, as per the methodology outlined in 

the 'As -built stage' chapter / sectio n of the GLA 'Be Seen' energy monitoring guidance (or any document that may 

replace it), together with supporting evidence, shall be submitted to the GLA using the 'Be Seen' as -built stage 

reporting webform (https://www.london.gov.uk/what -we -do/planning/ implementing -london -plan/london -

planguidance -and -spgs/be -seen -energy -monitoring -guidance). It shall also be confirmed that suitable monitoring 

devices have been installed and maintained for the monitoring of the in -use energy performance indicators, as 

out lined in the 'In -use stage' of the GLA 'Be Seen' energy monitoring guidance document. 

Reason: To ensure that the development has an acceptable level of sustainability, and it makes the fullest 

contribution to minimising carbon dioxide emissions (LP Policies SI 2 and SI 3 and LLP Policy EN4). 

12 Prior to the first occupation of the development hereby approved, a Travel Plan relating to the use shall be 

submitted to and approved in writing by the local planning authority. The measures approved in the Travel Plan 

shall be implemented prior to the commencement of each use and maintained for the duration of the use unless the 

prior written approval of the Local Planning Authority is obtained to any variation. 

Reason: To ensure that the travel arrangements to the site are appropriate and to limit the effects of the increase in 

travel movements in accordance with (LP Policy T4 and LLP Policies T1, T2, T3 and T6). ↑ To contents 

Notes to Applicants: 

In dealing with this application the Council has acted in line with the National Planning Policy Framework to work 

with the applicant in a positive and proactive manner . The council has made available on its website the policies 

and guidance provided by Lambeth Local Plan 2020 -2035 (September 2021) and its supplementary planning 

documents. We also offer a full pre -application advice service in order to ensure that the applicant has every 

opportunity to submit an application that’s likely to be considered acceptable. 

1. This decision letter does not convey an approval or consent which may be required under any 

enactment, by -law, order or regulation, other than Section 57 of the Town and Country Planning 

Act 1990. 

2. Your attention is drawn to the provisions of the Building Regulations, and related legislation which 

must be complied with to the satisfaction of the Council's Building Control Officer. 

3. Your attention is drawn to the need to comply with the requirements of the Control of Pollution Act 

1974 concerning construction site noise and in this respect you are advised to contact the 

Council's Environmental Health Division. 

4. You are advised of the necessity to consult the Council's Highways team prior to the 

commencement of construction at drw@lambeth.gov.uk in order to obtain necessary approvals 

and licences prior to undertaking any works within the Public Highway including Scaffolding, 

Temporary/Permanent Crossovers, Oversailing/Undersailing of the Highway, Drainage/Sewer 

Connections, Hoarding, Excavations (including adjacent to the highway such as basements, etc), 

Temporary Full/Part Road Closures, Craneage Licences etc. 

5. You are advised of the necessity to consult the Council's Highway Team at drw@lambeth.gov.uk, 

with regard to any alterations affecting the public footway.It is current Council policy for the 

Council's contractor to construct new vehicular accesses and to reinstate the footway across 

redundant accesses. The developer is to contact the Council's Highways team at 

drw@lambeth.gov.uk, prior to the commencement of construction, to arrange for any such work to 

be done. If the developer wishes to undertake this work the Council will require a deposit and the 

developer will need to cover all the Council's costs (including supervision of the works). If the 

works are of a significant nature, a Section 278 Agreement (Highways Act 1980) will be required 

and the works must be carried out to the Council's specification. 

Yours sincerely 

Rob Bristow 

Director of Planning, Transport and Sustainability 

Climate and Inclusive Growth Directorate ↑ To contents 

INFORMATION FOR APPLICANTS GRANTED PLANNING PERMISSION SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS, OR 

WHERE PERMISSION HAS BEEN REFUSED. 

General Information 

This permission is subject to due compliance with any local Acts, regulations, building by -laws and general 

statutory provisions in force in the area and nothing herein shall be regarded as dispensing with such compliance 

or be deemed to be a consent by th e Council thereunder. 

Your attention is drawn to the provisions of the Building Regulations 1985 and related legislation which must be 

complied with to the satisfaction of the Council’s Building Control Officer, PO Box 80771, London SW2 9QQ .

The Council’s permission does not modify or affect any personal or restrictive covenants, easements, etc., applying 

to or affecting the land or the rights of any person entitled to the benefits thereof. 

STATEMENT OF APPLICANT’S RIGHTS ARISING FROM THE REFUSAL OF PLANNING PERMISSION OR 

FROM THE GRANT OF PERMISSION SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS. 

Appeals to the Secretary of State 

If the applicant is aggrieved by the decision of the local planning authority to refuse permission or approval for the 

proposed development or to grant permission or approval subject to conditions, he may appeal to the Secretary of 

State in accordance with Section 78 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 within six months from the date of 

this notice. Appeals must be made on a form which is obtainable from The Planning Inspectorate, Room 3/13 

Temple Quay House, 2 The Square, Temple Quay, Bristol BS1 6P N. Alternatively an Appeal form can be 

downloaded from their website at https://www.gov.uk/appeal -planning -decision . The Secretary of State has power 

to allow longer period for the giving of a notice of appeal but he will not normally be prepared to exercise this power 

unless there are special circumstances which excuse the delay in giving notice of appeal. The Secreta ry of State is 

not required to entertain an appeal if it appears to him that permission for the proposed development could not 

have been gra nted by the local planning authority, or could not have been so granted otherwise than subject to the 

conditions imposed by them, having regard to the statutory requirements, to the provisions of the development 

order, and to any directions given under the order. 

Purchase Notice 

If permission to develop land is refused or granted subject to conditions, whether by the local planning authority or 

by the Secretary of State for the Environment, and the owner of the land claims that the land has become 

incapable of reasonably beneficia l use in its existing state and cannot be rendered capable of reasonable beneficial 

use by the carrying out of any development which has been or would be permitted, he may serve on the London 

Borough of Lambeth a purchase notice requiring that Council to p urchase his interest in the land in accordance 

with the provisions of Section 137 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990. 

Compensation 

In certain circumstances, a claim may be made against the local planning authority for compensation, where 

permission is refused or granted subject to conditions by the Secretary of State for the Environment on appeal or 

on a reference of the application t o him. The circumstances in which such compensation is payable are set out in 

Section 120 and related provision of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990. ↑ To contents 

# 5.2 Appendix 2 – List of main planning policies 

London Plan (2021) 

GG1 Building strong and inclusive communities 

GG2 Making the best use of land 

GG3 Creating a healthy city 

GG5 Growing a good economy 

D4 Delivering good design 

D5 Inclusive design 

D10 Basement development 

D11 Safety, security and resilience to emergency 

D12 Fire safety 

D13 Agent of Change 

D14 Noise 

S1 Developing London’s social infrastructure 

E2 Providing suitable business space 

E11 Skills and opportunities for all 

SI 1 Improving air quality 

SI 2 Minimising greenhouse gas emissions 

SI 4 Managing heat risk 

SI 7 Reducing waste and supporting the circular economy 

SI 8 Waste capacity and net waste self -suffic iency 

SI 9 Safeguarded waste sites 

SI 12 Flood risk management 

SI 13 Sustainable drainage 

T2 Healthy Streets 

T3 Transport capacity, connectivity 

T4 Assessing and mitigating transport impacts 

T5 Cycling 

T6 Car parking 

T7 Deliveries, servicing and construction 

Regional Guidance 

Relevant publications from the GLA include: 

• Accessible London SPG (2014) 

• Air Quality Neutral LPG (202 3)

• ‘Be Seen’ energy monitoring guidance LPG (2021) 

• Circular Economy Statements LPG (2022) 

• Energy Assessment Guidance (2022) 

• Sus tainable Transport, Walking and Cycling LPG (202 2)

Lambeth Local Plan 2020 - 2035 (2021) 

D1 Delivery and monitoring 

D2 Presumption in favour of sustainable development 

D3 Infrastructure 

D4 Planning obligations ↑ To contents 

ED4 Non -designated industrial sites 

ED7 Town centres 

ED15 Employment and training 

T1 Sustainable travel 

T2 Walking 

T3 Cycling 

T6 Parking 

T7 Servicing 

EN1 Open space, green infrastructure and biodiversity 

EN4 Sustainable design and construction 

EN5 Flood risk 

EN6 Sustainable drainage systems and water management 

EN7 Sustainable waste management 

Q1 Inclusive environments 

Q2 Amenity 

Q3 Safety, crime prevention and counter terrorism 

Q7 Urban design: new development 

Q8 Design quality: construction detailing 

Q12 Refuse and recycling 

Q13 Cycle storage 

Q27 Basement development 

Local Guidance / Supplementary Planning Documents (SPD) 

Relevant local guidance and SPDs for Lambeth include: 

• Design Guide SPD (202 3)↑ To contents 

# 5.3 Appendix 3 – List of consultees 

External consultees 

Environment Agency 

Transport for London (TfL) 

Design out Crime officer 

London Underground 

London Fire Brigade 

Internal consultees 

Energy and Sustainability ( Bio -Regional )

Environmental Health (RSS) 

Planning Policy 

Development Infrastructure 

Transport 

Waste Contractor 

Highways 

Employment and Skills 

Active Travel Co -ordinator 

Other consultees 

The Clapham Society 

Clapham Southside Avenues Residents Association 

Englewood Road Residents Association 

Friends of Clapham Common 

Notre Dame Tenants Association 

St Lukes Avenue Residents Associations 

Ward Councillors
